As prekindergarten and kindergarten (PreK/K) programs continue to expand into public elementary schools, a key actor in this process of integration and alignment is the school principal. While there is a growing body of scholarship that examines how principals integrate and align these programs with the later grades of elementary school, little is known about how principals identify the support prekindergarten and kindergarten teachers need to be successful in educating and preparing their students for school success; such information can provide insight into principals’ understanding of the work PreK/K teachers are doing daily in their classrooms. This case study examines this issue by investigating how a sample of elementary school principals in Texas made sense of the support PreK/K teachers require to be successful in their positions. Such findings reveal principals’ sensemaking of PreK/K teachers and their programs. These findings also illuminate what principals and their teachers might need from district and state administrators to lead these programs more effectively so that all students can begin their academic careers on a trajectory to thrive in elementary school.BackgroundThe objective of this study was to assess the content validity of the EQ-5D-5L and four bolt-ons: skin irritation, self-confidence, social relationships and sleep, for people with atopic dermatitis (AD) and chronic urticaria (CU).MethodsAdults with AD or CU in the United Kingdom, with varying levels of severity, participated in either online or in-person semi-structured interviews. During the interviews, participants were first asked about the symptoms and impacts of their condition. They were then asked to complete the EQ-5D-5L and four bolt-ons using ‘think-aloud’ and retrospective probing. Interviews were recorded, transcribed, then analysed using content and thematic analysis.ResultsThirty participants (N= 15 with AD;N= 15 with CU) were interviewed. Participants spontaneously reported itch (AD: 100%; CU: 93%), self-confidence (AD: 100%, CU: 47%), sleep (AD: 53%; CU: 53%), and social relationships (AD: 27%; CU: 60%). The skin irritation bolt-on was the most important or relevant dimension for 60% of AD and 73% of CU participants. For all participants, skin irritation and self-confidence bolt-ons improved the EQ-5D-5L’s comprehensiveness. Social relationships was more frequently ranked as the least relevant among the other bolt-ons.ConclusionsThis study assessed the content validity of four EQ-5D-5L bolt-ons within two patient populations. Skin irritation, self-confidence and sleep bolt-ons showed good evidence of content validity for people with AD and CU, providing support for their application in other skin conditions. The value of a social relationships bolt-on was less clear. Quantitative psychometric research is recommended to further support the use of bolt-ons in CU and AD.Based on the assumption that language influences thinking, the present study investigated the effect of gender-fair language in German, a grammatically gendered language among primary school children. Specifically, in a single-study experiment, we compared 218 German third and fourth graders on the effects of the generic masculine (e.g.,der Polizist; English:the policeman) and gender-fair language in terms of the feminine and masculine form (e.g.,die Polizistin/der Polizist; English:the policewoman/the policeman) on the cognitive representation of women in stereotypically masculine occupations and occupational self-efficacy. General self-efficacy was examined as a moderator variable, assumed to influence the effect of gender-fair language on occupational self-efficacy. The results indicate that the gender-fair form led to a higher cognitive representation of women in stereotypically masculine occupations for girls and increased girls’ occupational self-efficacy for stereotypically masculine occupations. In contrast, the use of gender-fair language did not significantly influence boys’ cognitive representation of women and their occupational self-efficacy. General self-efficacy did not affect the effect of gender-fair language on occupational self-efficacy. Thus, even as early as in primary school, gender-fair language could help attracting girls to stereotypically masculine occupations.Subsidies that reduce childcare costs for low-income families have been linked with benefits including increases in parental employment and use of higher quality care. However, these benefits accrue mainly to families who access subsidies for sustained periods. The recertification process, whereby families must periodically document that they are still eligible for subsidies, has been identified as administratively burdensome and as a barrier to continuous subsidy enrollment. Drawing on a novel survey (n = 501) and interviews (n = 64) with families in New Mexico, this study used logistic regression and thematic analysis to examine family characteristics associated with successful recertification, facilitators and impediments to successful recertification, reasons for subsidy exit, and implications of recertification processes for family stability. Results showed families with full-time employment, fewer adults in the home, and lower incomes had greater odds of recertifying successfully without a gap in benefits. Families’ primary reasons for exiting the subsidy program included changes to their childcare needs (e.g., COVID disruptions or children aging into kindergarten), and changes to their eligibility due to increased income or leaving the workforce. Families reported that recertification was less burdensome when they received clear and consistent communication from eligibility workers or navigation support from their care providers. When subsidy benefits were lost, participants reported adverse consequences for their care arrangements and employment circumstances. They also described adverse outcomes of maintaining their eligibility, such as turning down pay increases.The rapid proliferation of digital media has significantly transformed childhood experiences, necessitating an understanding of its impact on preschoolers’ development. This study illuminates the nature of YouTube interactions among preschool-aged children, underlining the importance of this research in the broader context of digital media’s role in early childhood. Addressing a vital gap, the work explores how these interactions influence aspirations and consumer behavior within a Turkish cultural framework. Employing semi-structured interviews, data was meticulously gathered from 25 parent-child pairs, providing a narrative-driven exploration into digital engagement. The findings reveal a dual-faceted impact: children exhibited emotional responses and altered aspirations post-YouTube exposure, with a marked inclination towards consumerism influenced by digital content. This underscores the potency of social learning through digital platforms. However, the research scope was confined to a specific locale, necessitating caution when extending conclusions beyond this demographic. The results prompt a reevaluation of parental mediation practices, suggest potential for educational integration of digital media, and advocate for the necessity of culturally attuned digital content regulation. Implications for future research include diversifying methodologies and participant demographics to further substantiate the findings and expand their applicability.Over the last 15 years, many European countries have experienced fertility declines. Existing research on this shift in fertility behavior points to economic aspects and increased levels of uncertainty as important drivers. However, in this debate little attention has been paid to how the relevance of individual- and contextual-level dimensions for understanding the new fertility patterns varies by level of urbanization. This is surprising given that urban and rural areas not only differ strongly in fertility timing and levels, but also in economic conditions. Our paper fills this important research gap by analyzing rich register data from Finland using multi-level event history models to study the transition to first birth among younger (under age 30) and older (ages 30 or older) women. We show that urban–rural differences in the transition to parenthood are particularly pronounced among younger women. In addition, the results indicate that economic circumstances and related uncertainties are more relevant for understanding first births probabilities for younger women than older women. Finally, among younger women, the relevance of economic circumstances and related uncertainties seems to be most relevant in the capital region of Helsinki and urban areas compared to semiurban and rural areas. Our findings underline that the urban–rural dimension should receive more attention in research on fertility in times of uncertainty.While improving teachers’ questioning skills and techniques should be the primary focus in professional development, it is equally crucial for teachers to help children recognize that some questions are more effective for learning than others and that asking with a purpose leads to a deeper understanding. Well-formulated questions and the ability to discern which questions are worth posing are also essential components of developing into an autonomous learner and decision-maker. The collaborative case study presented here, conducted by a university researcher and an early childhood teacher, responded to calls for research into children’s questions across diverse cultural contexts and with a variety of methodologies. Through qualitative data collection and analysis over a five-month period, the study had the advantage of tracking the learning journey of a group of 4- and 5-year-olds in a Greek early childhood setting, from repeating each other’s questions to asking purposeful questions in various contexts and documenting how children’s questioning skills were co-constructed in context. Through examples of critical incidents and samples of children’s efforts, the paper discusses the strategies that supported children in posing more effective questions and illustrates how the surrounding conversational and social environment can facilitate the improvement of question-asking.Although numerous studies have investigated the psychological outcomes of peer victimization, little is known about differences in the negative effects of traditional victimization and cyber victimization, especially among left-behind and non-left-behind adolescents in rural China. We aimed to examine a model explaining how traditional victimization and cyber victimization influence suicidal ideation mediated by emotional distress in rural China, with left-behind status as a moderator. Data were collected via random, multistage, stratified-cluster sampling in schools in a rural region of Hunan province, China. The sample included 697 adolescents in Grades 7–9 (boys = 53.8%). Structural equation modeling and multigroup comparison analysis were performed to test a pre-formulated conceptual model. In the full sample, both traditional and cyber victimization were associated with students’ emotional distress, which was also associated with suicidal ideation. Among left-behind adolescents, only traditional victimization was associated with emotional distress and suicidal ideation. For non-left-behind adolescents, both traditional victimization and cyber victimization were significantly associated with emotional distress, and cyber victimization’s association with emotional distress was even slightly stronger than traditional victimization’s. Our study expands the current understanding of the differential effects of traditional and cyber victimization among subgroups of children. The findings further suggest that the focus should not be solely on left-behind children; the psychological health of non-left-behind children also warrants attention. Additionally, the study provides considerable implications for practice.PurposeItem response theory (IRT) models are an increasingly popular method choice for evaluating clinical outcome assessments (COAs) for use in clinical trials. Given common constraints in clinical trial design, such as limits on sample size and assessment lengths, the current study aimed to examine the appropriateness of commonly used polytomous IRT models, specifically the graded response model (GRM) and partial credit model (PCM), in the context of how they are frequently used for psychometric evaluation of COAs in clinical trials.MethodsData were simulated under varying sample sizes, measure lengths, response category numbers, and slope strengths, as well as under conditions that violated some model assumptions, namely, unidimensionality and equality of item slopes. Model fit, detection of item local dependence, and detection of item misfit were all examined to identify conditions where one model may be preferable or results may contain a degree of bias.ResultsFor unidimensional item sets and equal item slopes, the PCM and GRM performed similarly, and GRM performance remained consistent as slope variability increased. For not-unidimensional item sets, the PCM was somewhat more sensitive to this unidimensionality violation. Looking across conditions, the PCM did not demonstrate a clear advantage over the GRM for small sample sizes or shorter measure lengths.ConclusionOverall, the GRM and the PCM each demonstrated advantages and disadvantages depending on underlying data conditions and the model outcome investigated. We recommend careful consideration of the known, or expected, data characteristics when choosing a model and interpreting its results.I study the association between task content of jobs and mothers’ employment transitions after the first birth in Germany. I construct measures of task content of jobs using data from the Employment Survey conducted by the German Federal Institute for Vocational Education and Training (BiBB). These indicators illustrate the career cost of children and how it is impacted by the technology- and globalization-driven labour market change. The measures are then linked to high-quality individual register data from the German Pension Fund (FDZ-RV) covering the years 2012–2020. Utilizing competing risk models, I show that women engaged in occupations with analytic and interactive task content, which are in high demand and incompatible with maternity-related employment breaks, are the most likely to transition to employment after their first birth. Conversely, women with occupations intense in routine tasks, which are more susceptible to automation or trade competition, are more likely to experience unemployment.As the caregivers and educators of young children, kindergarten teachers often have to make spontaneous decisions and deal with challenging situations on a daily basis. The well-being of kindergarten teachers is of interest to parents, teacher trainers, and policymakers, as whether kindergarten teachers do well physically, psychologically, and occupationally has important implications for young children—the future pillars of society. Therefore, it is important to examine factors that may contribute to our understanding of the well-being of kindergarten teachers. This cross-sectional study examined whether mindfulness was linked to Chinese kindergarten teachers’ physical, psychological, and occupational well-being and tested self-compassion as a mediator. Online questionnaire data were collected from 336 kindergarten teachers working in Hong Kong, China (mean age = 31.6 years; 86% of them were women). Kindergarten teachers rated their physical well-being (indicated by physical health and voice disorder symptoms), psychological well-being (indicated by life satisfaction and depressive symptoms), and occupational well-being (indicated by job satisfaction and turnover intentions) as well as their mindfulness and self-compassion. Structural equational modeling revealed that mindfulness was associated with all three aspects of well-being and self-compassion mediated such associations. Theoretically, findings highlighted the multidimensional nature of kindergarten teachers’ well-being and the roles of intrapersonal factors—such as mindfulness and self-compassion—in understanding it. Practically, findings pointed to the potential utility of supporting kindergarten teachers’ well-being by targeting their mindfulness and self-compassion.Parental overprotection is thought to be a risk factor for childhood anxiety disorders. The Parental Overprotection Measure (POM) is a self-assessment scale that has been used in many studies, however, no article has comprehensively explored its psychometric properties. The aim of this study was to evaluate the POM to secure reliable, replicable, and comparable results. Using an item-response theoretical framework, we aimed to address five basic criteria of psychometric quality: one-dimensionality, ordered response categories, invariance, targeting, and reliability. Furthermore, we aimed to identify and exclude any items that did not contribute significantly, to create a concise and practical scale. A total of 1092 parents of children aged 4–12 years were recruited through an online advertisement and completed an anonymous online survey during September and October 2020. Out of the 19 items of the original scale, eight were excluded due to unsatisfactory psychometric properties and/or because of not being judged by experts as harmonious with the concept of parental overprotection. The retained items constituted the POM-11, a brief scale with sound psychometric properties that has the potential for use in both research and clinical settings.Previous research shows that female workers are less sensitive to wages in their decision to switch jobs than male workers, and that this could explain a substantial part of the gender wage gap. This paper studies to what extent gender differences in preferences and personality traits explain the gender gap in the wage-elasticity of job-to-job transitions in the labor market. Using a novel decomposition approach in the context of mediated moderation and using German Socio-Economic Panel Survey (G-SOEP) data for the period 2005–2019, we find that gender differences in risk preferences, patience, trust, reciprocity, altruism, conscientiousness, ambition and self-esteem explain about 25% of the gender gap in wage-elasticities of job separations. A detailed decomposition suggests that risk preferences, trust and ambition contribute most to this gender gap in wage-elasticity.Background and ObjectivesFamilies of children with special health care needs (CSHCN) have reported to benefit from social, emotional, and informational support from other families (peer support) with similarly affected children. Pediatric subspecialists often serve as the primary medical providers for CSHCN, as well as educators for these children’s families. The extent to which subspecialists refer families to sources of peer support is unknown.MethodsA statewide online survey of California pediatric subspecialists investigated opinions about the potential value and challenges of peer support. Data was obtained on the frequency with which families in their practices were referred to peer support, practice characteristics, and personal demographics. Weighted data, descriptive statistics, and regression models were used to characterize and predict factors affecting referral services.ResultsThere were 388 respondents, a response rate of 14.5%. Subspecialists were generally unfamiliar with peer support resources in their communities, but many more knew of peer support programs in their institutions. Most (> 85%) held positive views about peer support, though only 40% of practices often referred families for such support. Individual opinions did not predict practice referral processes for peer support which were more influenced by knowledge of resources, and availability of time, staffing, and institutional peer support resources.ConclusionOffering referral to peer support services is compatible with pediatric subspecialty care. Educating physicians about available resources, assigning responsibility, providing staff time for referring families, and incorporating parent mentors into subspecialty practices can increase access. Future studies of families’ referral experiences are needed.Occupational burnout is a concern for the health of clergy and musicians and the longevity of their careers. However, no known study has assessed occupational burnout among pastoral musicians in the United States. Therefore, the aims of this paper were to (1) describe pastoral musicians as a population, (2) identify the prevalence rate of burnout among pastoral musicians, and (3) investigate the relationship between pastoral musicians’ burnout and religious coping. In 2021, an online questionnaire designed to assess burnout among pastoral musicians was disseminated via email to members of the Hymn Society of North America and via social media to collect data from pastoral music directors in the United States. The survey yieldedN= 1,050 respondents. Of these, 83.8% experienced one or more symptoms of burnout (41.3% with low efficacy; 12.4% with high emotional exhaustion; 21.3% with high cynicism; 8.8% with burnout). Ineffectiveness was positively correlated with negative religious coping. Emotional exhaustion and cynicism were positively correlated with negative religious coping. This study contributes quantitative analysis to pastoral musician research. Findings demonstrate that burnout is prevalent among American pastoral musicians. More research is needed to investigate solutions for burnout among this population.Keywords: church musician, performance-related health problems (PRHPs), clergy, musicians’ health, performing arts health, burnout.Contraceptive use is the most effective means of preventing unintended pregnancies among sexually active individuals. Foreign-born women are less likely to use contraception when compared to US-born women. However, there are limited studies focused on understanding factors that influence contraceptive use among foreign-born women in the US. This study aimed to explore the factors associated with contraceptive use in the early reproductive lives of foreign-born women in the US. This study utilized the 2017-2019 National Survey on Family Growth to conduct a cross-sectional secondary data analysis. Analyses were restricted to observations from 708 women who identified as foreign-born, were aged 15-49 years, and provided information about their first pregnancies. Chi-square tests and multivariable logistic regression were used to assess the factors influencing contraceptive use. 70.9% of the participants had used a form of contraception in the period leading to their first pregnancy. Multivariable regression analysis identified significant predictors of contraceptive use: educational level, age, religion, income levels, health insurance, and race/ethnicity. Those with a religious affiliation and were 25 years and above had greater odds of contraceptive use while non-Hispanic blacks and non-Hispanic other/multiple race participants had lower odds of contraceptive use. Based on the predictors identified, public health interventions should be tailored to address specific socio-demographic factors that influence contraceptive decisionmaking among foreign-born women in the US. Additionally, understanding the disparities in contraceptive use across racial/ethnic backgrounds underscores the need for culturally sensitive approaches that acknowledge and respect diverse beliefs surrounding contraception.BackgroundThe transferability of health policies in the European Union (EU) faces challenges due to economic, political, and healthcare system factors, including cross-country differences in health preferences. In order to aid policymaking, previous research has grouped EU countries based on geographical proximity or literature-based criteria, but not on health preference data. The EQ-5D-5L instrument, which measures health-related quality of life and reflects unique national health preferences shaped by cultural and social factors, is used to evaluate policies, technologies and interventions, but has not been used to group countries. Thus, this study aims to identify clusters of EU-27 countries with similar preference patterns using published EQ-5D-5L value sets.MethodsHierarchical agglomerative clustering was employed on 13 EU-27 countries’ EQ-5D-5L value sets, first analyzing regression coefficients for each dimension-level and then creating a simulated coefficient distribution considering uncertainty.FindingsFive clusters of EU-27 countries emerged: (1) Belgium, Netherlands, Sweden, Germany); (2) Hungary, Italy, Portugal; (3) Poland, Romania; (4) France, Spain; (5) Denmark, Ireland. All clusters except cluster 5 gave higher importance to “Pain and Discomfort”; all clusters except cluster 1 gave less importance to “Usual Activities”. “Anxiety and Depression” and “Pain and Discomfort” had the largest heterogeneity in valuation across severity level.InterpretationIdentified clusters of countries with distinct health preferences provide insights for health policy transferability in the EU. Recognizing countries with similar health preferences can aid EU policymaking and transferability efforts, particularly in early-stage policymaking, while also fostering closer collaboration on health policy decisions and best practice sharing. Further development of national value sets within the EU is necessary for a more accurate representation.Interpersonal and intergroup relationships seem to have steadily deteriorated in recent years, with an increase in the lack of civility and decency along with a greater willingness to attack and cancel anyone who does not agree with one’s cherished perspective on numerous matters. New popular phrases such as cancel culture, public shaming, air rage, and gaslighting have entered the common vernacular. Ignatian spirituality offers several helpful strategies for dealing with these contemporary divisive conflicts in a productive manner. These include (1) seeing God (or the sacred) in all things, (2) striving towards kinship with others through the pathway of civility, hospitality, and solidarity, and (3) managing conflict with accommodation, humility, and the expectation of goodness in mind. This article introduces and provides examples of these three Ignatian principles that can be employed in all challenging relationships, including both personal and professional as well as psychotherapeutic ones. They can be utilized in a secular or spiritually minded manner as well. Having more tools to improve relationships is especially needed now.Classmates’ academic and executive function (EF) skills are important predictors of individual EF and achievement. The present study investigated the effects of peer EF, using a battery of measures, on individual EF and academic achievement in preschool. Peer effects were assessed for 321 preschool-aged children from 48 classrooms. Using hierarchical linear modeling, peer EF predicted student gains in executive function, vocabulary, and math, but not literacy. Results suggested that classrooms with higher overall EF had students who achieved more skills over the course of the school year in comparison to children in classrooms with lower levels of EF. The effect of fall peer EF on spring student EF was greater for low-income dual language learners (DLLs) than monolinguals. Findings suggest that EF, math, and vocabulary knowledge are socially mediated by peers and can have differential effects on DLLs.The representation of motherhood using digital platforms, which we call sharenting, can shape the socially constructed motherhood identity, i.e., supermoms in modern societies. Despite building a positive identity as mothers, supermoms may unintentionally violate their children’s privacy, instrumentalise, and even monetise the children. We examine sharenting and supermom identities as manifestations of neoliberal repositioning women as mothers and employees with little consideration of their unarticulated struggles. Drawing on a netnographic study of social media practices, we analysed fifteen working supermom accounts with over two hundred thousand followers, where child-related content was shared and posted between 2019 and 2023. We find that sharenting is often employed to construct the identity of supermoms, yet it frequently leads to the exploitation of children for profit-driven purposes, thereby increasing their vulnerability. We contribute to the literature by offering empirical evidence that the supermom identity is a by-product of the neoliberal system, which normalises time-intensive demands on women in the workplace and caregiving roles. Furthermore, we highlight the adverse consequences of sharenting and provide critical insights into the privacy and security risks associated with child-related digital content.The lack of health insurance coverage is one of the most serious challenges confronting refugees and an important public policy issue. This study examines how refugees’ human and social capital is linked to their health insurance coverage. This study uses the 2020 Annual Survey of Refugees public use data file to test the relationship between refugees’ human and social capital and their health insurance coverage. 770 refugees who entered the U.S. between 2015 and 2019 are included in the sample. Health insurance coverage is measured in three different levels: no coverage at all, coverage with a gap, and coverage all year long. This study employs an ordered probit regression. The findings show that refugees’ human capital, regardless of whether it is from refugees’ home country or the U.S., is not associated with health insurance coverage. However, refugees’ social capital, in terms of their involvement in religious organizations and their informal bridging network with people from a different culture, is positively associated with coverage. The analysis also reveals a gap in coverage once the initial government assistance ends, and refugees’ paid employment and household income are negatively associated with health insurance coverage. The findings suggest that refugees’ social capital in the new country plays an important role in obtaining the necessary information for healthcare access while the positive impacts of human capital on healthcare access may not apply to the refugee population. Therefore, resettlement programs should place an emphasis on helping refugees build and enhance social connections with people of diverse cultural backgrounds.The representation of motherhood using digital platforms, which we call sharenting, can shape the socially constructed motherhood identity, i.e., supermoms in modern societies. Despite building a positive identity as mothers, supermoms may unintentionally violate their children’s privacy, instrumentalise, and even monetise the children. We examine sharenting and supermom identities as manifestations of neoliberal repositioning women as mothers and employees with little consideration of their unarticulated struggles. Drawing on a netnographic study of social media practices, we analysed fifteen working supermom accounts with over two hundred thousand followers, where child-related content was shared and posted between 2019 and 2023. We find that sharenting is often employed to construct the identity of supermoms, yet it frequently leads to the exploitation of children for profit-driven purposes, thereby increasing their vulnerability. We contribute to the literature by offering empirical evidence that the supermom identity is a by-product of the neoliberal system, which normalises time-intensive demands on women in the workplace and caregiving roles. Furthermore, we highlight the adverse consequences of sharenting and provide critical insights into the privacy and security risks associated with child-related digital content.U.S. immigrant parents encounter various challenges during the migration and resettlement process, such as acculturative stress and dissonance in parenting practices between the cultures in the U.S. and those in their country of origin. Although studies have established a link between increased perceived stress and reduced parenting self-efficacy in U.S.-born parents, which could be alleviated by levels of parental empowerment, little is known about this pathway in the context of migration. Guided by the Family Adjustment and Adaptation Response Model and with a focus on low-income immigrant parents of young children, we examined (1) the association between perceived stress and parenting self-efficacy, and (2) whether parental empowerment constitutes a buffer between perceived stress and parenting self-efficacy. Participants included foreign-born, low-income parents (n= 680) with preschool-aged children enrolled in Head Start of Greater Boston. Linear regression models were conducted to examine the relationship between perceived stress and parenting self-efficacy. An interaction term between perceived stress and empowerment was included to test the moderating effect of each dimension of parental empowerment (i.e., resource empowerment, critical awareness, and relational empowerment). Results showed higher perceived stress was associated with lower parenting self-efficacy and this relationship was moderated by relational empowerment. Findings suggest that relational empowerment can be an important resource for immigrant parents with high stress and a protective factor to improve self-efficacy in their parenting. These results pose important implications regarding how healthcare professionals and clinicians may support parents, for example, through the development of culturally sensitive parenting interventions and the creation of safe environments for parent-to-parent relationships.There is a long history of political violence in the United States. Scholars have documented numerous dispositions that predict support for violence as a political tactic, finding that a general tendency toward aggression is consistently among the strongest predictors. Yet, we know much less about how political attitudes might activate aggressive personalities and direct them toward specific targets. In this paper, we examine how policy attitudes interact with dispositional aggression to motivate support for political violence. Across two studies, using novel measures and within-subjects designs, we show that intense policy opposition strongly predicts support for aggressive political tactics against politicians responsible for the legislation – primarily among those who are dispositionally prone to aggression. Surprisingly, the strength of partisan identity plays little role in explaining support for political aggression. Our findings suggest that policy attitudes are a crucial factor for understanding when aggressive individuals might turn to political violence.ObjectiveGlobally, obstetric hemorrhage and trauma are the leading causes of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality during pregnancy. Delivering high-quality medical care to these patients is therefore imperative.This study aims to examine the relationship between month of referral and the severity of emergency admissions among pregnant women referred for obstetric hemorrhage and trauma.Materials and MethodsA retrospective cross-sectional analysis was conducted on hospital records of 1,684 pregnant women admitted to the case emergency center at Imam Reza Hospital in Mashhad, Iran for hemorrhage or trauma between January and December 2016. Secondary data extracted from the hospital information system (HIS) were used to calculate frequencies for patient demographics (age, insurance type), clinical characteristics (admission type, emergency severity, injury cause, referral reason) and external factors (month of referral). Logistic regression was used to assess the relationship between the month of referral and emergency severity (urgent/non-urgent) for hemorrhage and trauma.ResultsHemorrhage during pregnancy (n= 1,636, 97.1%) was the most prevalent reason for referral throughout the year. The month of referral was significantly associated with emergency severity (P< 0.001). Compared to March, the odds of urgent referrals were notably higher in August (OR 3.822), October (OR 5.084), and November (OR 4.720).ConclusionA peak in emergency referrals were observed during the summer and fall months, with October having the highest number of referrals for obstetric hemorrhage and trauma.More than merely policy, neoliberalism shapes how teachers relate to their students and classrooms. This article seeks to make visible how neoliberalism functions to form and deform teacher’s subjectivities (and in turn their pedagogical practices) through an analysis of the experiences of two teachers within an accountability-constrained elementary school. Using data generated within an ethnographically-informed case study, we draw on discourse analytic and post-qualitative methodologies, in conversation with critical theorizing of neoliberalism, to examine how teachers’ subjectivities were fractured as they worked to simultaneously meet the demands of neoliberal accountability and the humanizing aims of their pedagogical philosophies. We describe three archetypes—the neoliberal pragmatist, the student advocate, and the humanizing pedagogue—constructed to represent the varied approaches taken by teachers in their attempts to reconcile these conflicting aims. Then, through two vignettes of classroom practice, we illustrate how neoliberal logics and policies compelled these teachers to balance competing subjectivities, resulting in those teachers enacting extensive test preparation that contradicted their pedagogical philosophies. Through this analysis, we argue that fragmentation of teachers’ subjectivities within neoliberalism functions to effectively keep teachers off balance in their attempts to both respond to and resist neoliberal educational reforms, resulting in a maintenance of the neoliberal order.This article examines how teachers use sponsorship to foster Black student academic success. Sponsorship is understood to be tailored, active support from influential teachers that promote academic success. The article examines a central question: “how do teachers use sponsorship to foster Black student success?” The author uses data from an ethnographic case study of high schools in a metropolitan area in the Midwest United States and draws on Critical Race Theory to inform the study. The author reconceptualizes sponsorship as a process termed sifting for success. Findings show sifting for success involves three components: (a) centering a systematic exclusion of Black people; (b) removing barriers to academic success; and (c) positioning some students as academic afterthoughts. The author details tensions that emerge as teachers use sponsorship to benefit Black students. The article concludes with a discussion of the findings and offers implications for future inquiries.In this study, we measured attitudes, beliefs, and intentions about implementing outdoor learning experiences among 56 early childhood professionals before and after attending Growing Up WILD™ (GUW) training. Online pre- and post-surveys were distributed to participants measuring a range of attitudes (i.e., comfort and confidence), beliefs, and intentions (i.e., planning). Overall, after attending GUW training, participants reported feeling more confident facilitating conversations with children about nature and science and more comfortable about planning teacher directed activities, allowing children to take risks, and offering free play. They also expressed fewer concerns about potential barriers to going outside such as family concerns, materials, and curriculum. It also demonstrated participants had greater intentions to engage children in outdoor learning experiences (e.g., outdoor field trips and nature walks). Our findings highlight the impact that GUW training, a brief intervention, can have on early childhood professionals’ attitudes, beliefs, and intentions toward implementing outdoor education. We hope that these attitudinal shifts will encourage early childhood professionals to take young children outside so they can enjoy the benefits of outdoor education.Compared to global lobbying hubs like the USA and the European Union and to its neighboring countries, Switzerland hardly regulates legislative lobbying, i.e., lobbying that targets the legislative branch. Only three types of legal provisions apply to lobbying in the Swiss legislature: First, legislators must disclose their ties to interest groups. Second, access to the parliamentary building is limited and granted at the discretion of each legislator, who may give an entry pass to two individuals of his or her choice. Third, legislative lobbying is illegal if it violates the criminal law provisions on bribery. Proposals to enact more comprehensive regulation have failed, often after several years of legislative debate. Pursuant to the classification proposed by Chari et al. (Regulating Lobbying: A Global Comparison, 2nd ed., Manchester University Press, Manchester, 2019), the Swiss legal framework governing legislative lobbying qualifies as a ‘low-robustness’ regime at best. Yet, Switzerland ranks high in Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (6/180 in 2023). Is more extensive regulation superfluous or overdue in Switzerland? While the Swiss legal and political order is exceptional in some respects, these characteristics do not justify ‘Swiss exceptionalism’ with regard to the regulation of legislative lobbying, as some of these specificities pose distinctive threats that the law needs to tackle.Early writing includes both transcription skills (e.g., handwriting and spelling) and composing skills (e.g., the generation, manipulation, and translation of ideas into writing), yet early composing is not as well understood in academic research or by classroom educators. This study seeks to understand 1) how children retained or modified core idea units from pre-writing verbalizations to post-writing verbalizations and 2) how these transformations are related to other composing components, such as connection of ideas. Participants in this study included 133 children at the end of their prekindergarten year. Children completed two composing tasks related to planning a birthday party: an Invitation task and a List task, in which they were asked what they planned to write before writing and then what they had written after writing. Results indicate that most children’s pre- and post-verbalizations were connected in meaning. While children overwhelmingly modified their core ideas on both tasks, more children retained ideas on the List task than the Invitation task. Children most often concurrently added and deleted ideas on both tasks, but did so less often when pre- and post-verbalizations were connected in meaning. Implications for supporting the complete writing process, from planning to review and revision, in classroom practices as well as further directions for research are discussed.Cultural consonance, defined as the extent to which one is able to approximate a given cultural model in one’s own life, is a highly adaptive theory and method which anthropologists have used for decades to demonstrate direct connections between individuals’ variation in relation to meaning systems and their health outcomes. However, it has been limited by use of a “cultural consonance score” which treats cultural consonance unidimensionally. Because people enact cultural models in multiple ways, cultural consonance may be better operationalized multidimensionally. Applying correspondence analysis to young South Korean men’s responses to a cultural consonance scale measuring their approximation of the local ideal male body, cultural consonance is rather demonstrated to be a multiplicity. In the case of South Korean men’s body ideals, two dimensions—men’s overall attractiveness and whether they pursue a “flower boy” or a “beastly man” embodiment—are identified. These two dimensions are also significantly associated with university prestige and sexual identity, and predict disordered eating beyond body dissatisfaction. These data suggest that well-being in relation to cultural consonance is a product of its assemblage: both of degree of approximation of a cultural model and the manner by which individuals enact it.Navigating the vast sea of information in the digital age poses significant challenges, especially when it comes to discerning fake news from authentic information. This intricate task becomes even more challenging when the fake news is artfully presented as truth. Fake news often disguises itself as credible content and, by rapidly proliferating on digital platforms, contributes to increasing information disorder. This paper aims to investigate how the fake news phenomenon and its related issues have been addressed in the scientific literature. To achieve this objective, we conducted a bibliometric analysis of 3098 scientific publications extracted from the Web of Science from 2005 to 2022. This approach allowed us to identify the conceptual structure of fake news, including the different themes, and understand how they are interconnected in the field of fake news study. Additionally, we examined the intellectual structure based on the co-citations of key journals addressing this topic. The results of this research revealed an increase in the volume of fake news publications, coinciding with a rise in citations among the authors of the selected articles. Furthermore, we found that the conceptual structure of fake news is characterised by an interdisciplinary nature, which revolves mainly around sociopolitical dynamics and public health, with the latter particularly influenced by the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Finally, the intellectual structure uncovered by the journals’ co-citation network highlights the presence of two main subfields: communication and political debate and the behavioural domain.This paper examines the impact of children’s urban-to-urban migration on their parents’ health. Our findings indicate that children’s urban-to-urban migration significantly reduces the self-assessed health ratings of left-behind parents, increases the incidence of chronic diseases, and elevates levels of depression among them. However, there is no evidence of impacts on the left-behind parents’ activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily living, or memory functions. The overall decline in the parental health is mainly caused by the absence of daily care and emotional comfort, while the achievements of children may mitigate this negative shock to some extent. In addition, economic support provided by children’s urban-to-urban migration does not significantly impact parental health, which is related to the higher asset endowment possessed by urban parents. Furthermore, the negative impact of daughters’ urban-to-urban migration on parents is primarily reflected in physical health, while that of sons is mainly reflected in mental health. Additionally, the negative impact of urban-to-urban migration on the health of left-behind parents is more pronounced in the sub-samples of children who are financially dependent on their parents and left-behind parents with lower assets.We propose a synthesis of the independent scientific frameworks of economic complexity and urban scaling into a consistent mechanism—city complexity—to measure multi-dimensional fitness of cities. Essentially, we use deviations from scaling law for a given set of urban outcomes as the basis to construct a bipartite city-outcome matrix. This matrix forms the input into the economic complexity methodology, which iterates over a pair of coupled non-linear maps, computing fitness of cities and complexity of outcomes. We test our algorithm with data from American cities and find that the emergent city fitness measure is consistent with expected behavior across the set of outcomes studied. We also find temporal evolution of city fitness and outcome complexity to be in agreement with theoretical expectation. Finally, we perturb the metrics to conditions of widespread socioeconomic stress and find that outcomes are indicative of the robustness of thecity complexityalgorithm. Overall, these findings suggest that thecity complexitymechanism proposed here produces systematic, self-consistent metrics and can be applied across any set of diverse outcomes, irrespective of the specifics of national urban contexts.Healthcare services and outcomes are often not evenly distributed across geographic regions. This study used the harmonized data from the Research on Early Life and Trends and Effects (RELATE) to compare the health outcomes of older adults across the North–South divide of Ghana and identify the factors underlying these differences. Although the literature indicates that the South has more health resources and better health indicators, the current study revealed that, for older adults, health outcome in the North was comparatively better than that in the South. The optimal health index scores show that older adults in the North are living at 86% of their optimal health compared with 82% in the South. Work-related physical activity and age substantially influenced optimal health in both regions. Additionally, healthcare use and gender were influential, particularly in the South. The results of the current study suggest that healthcare service availability can impact health outcomes, but so can behavioral and sociodemographic factors.Throughout the years, immigration has been a significant movement in the USA and leads to the examination of acculturative stress. By employing the acculturation stress and vulnerability models, the present study aimed to examine the association among acculturation stress, self-esteem, depression, family cohesion, and familism in first-generation immigrant children. Longitudinal data from the Children of Immigrants Longitudinal Study (CILS) were used. The analytical sample (n= 5262) was predominantly female (51.1%) and between the ages of 12 and 18 (M= 14.23) years old. SPSS 27 and AMOS 27 were utilized to conduct a path analysis to examine the relationships among acculturation stress, self-esteem, depression, family cohesion, and familism. Our results showed good fit (χ2/df ratio = 11.49; CFI = 0.91; RMSEA = 0.05, CI [.04, .05]) for the full path model. Acculturation stress had a significant, negative association with depression (β= − 0.12,p< .001); a significant, negative association with self-esteem (β= − 0.12,p< .001); and a significant, positive association with family cohesion (β= 0.60,p< .01) and the familism index (β= 0.05,p< .05). Acculturation stress was found to be predictive of self-esteem, depression, and family cohesion for first-generation immigrant children between the ages of 12 and 18 years old. This study provides general implications for how mental health providers can understand the struggles and provide culturally competent therapeutic services for children and their families.I estimate the effect of tightness on wages in Hungary and Slovakia. The Mortensen Pissarides model predicts a positive relationship but the empirical evidence is scarce.  I instrument tightness by the distance of a district from the Austrian border, interacted with a dummy that marks the opening of the Austrian labour market to these countries in 2011. I find a positive effect of tightness on wages, which is in line with the conclusion of the models. If tightness increase by 1 per cent than ceteris paribus wages increase by roughly 0.2 per cent both in Hungary and Slovakia as well.PurposeOur objectives were to identify characteristics of response shift studies using patient-reported outcomes (PROMs) that explain variability in (1) the detection and (2) the magnitude of response shift effects.MethodsWe conducted a systematic review of quantitative studies published before June 2023. First, two-level multivariable logistic regression models (effect- and sample-levels) were used to explain variability in the probability of finding a response shift effect. Second, variability in effect sizes (standardized mean differences) was investigated with 3-level meta-regression models (participant-, effect- and sample-levels). Explanatory variables identified via the purposeful selection methodology included response shift method and type, and population-, study design-, PROM- and study-quality characteristics.ResultsFirst, logistic regression analysis of 5597 effects from 206 samples in 171 studies identified variables explaining 41.5% of theeffect-levelvariance, while no variables explainedsample-levelvariance. The average probability of response shift detection is 0.20 (95% CI: 0.17-0.28). Variation in detection was predominantly explained by response shift methods and type (recalibration vs. reprioritization/reconceptualization). Second, effect sizes were analyzed for 769 effects from 114 samples and 96 studies based on the then-test and structural equation modeling methods. Meta-regression analysis identified variables explaining 11.6% of the effect-level variance and 26.4% of the sample-level variance, with an average effect size of 0.30 (95% CI: 0.26-0.34).ConclusionResponse shift detection is influenced by study design and methods. Insights into the variables explaining response shift effects can be used to interpret results of other comparable studies using PROMs and inform the design of future response shift studies.Access to health services is a multidimensional and multistage phenomenon. Despite the extensive development of the theoretical framework of access to health care, until now, no indices have been developed to measure all its dimensions and stages. In this work, we propose an index for measuring the multidimensional access to health services, considering nine dimensions of this phenomenon and a questionnaire format that allows obtaining information for its calculation and application. The proposed index is continuous, monotonic, and can be decomposed according to dimensions and services. At the same time, our index considers the subjectivity in the patient valuation of each dimension throughout the different stages of health access. As a case study, we applied the proposed methodology to a medium-sized city in Argentina, determining the relationship of the index with socioeconomic factors and its spatial distribution. Although no clear geographic pattern emerged from the results, statistically significant relationships were found with socioeconomic factors such as gender identity, educational level, activity status, and type of health insurance of the household head.Recent climate disasters serve as a reminder of the growing—yet overlooked—risk of climate-driven displacement in the Global North. This paper contributes to a nascent literature on disaster-induced mobility in high-income countries by extending the evidence to a new context: Australia. Applying propensity score matching to panel data from the Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) Survey, we conduct the first causal assessment of the impact of home damage caused by extreme weather events on residential mobility in Australia. Our findings suggest that from 2009 to 2022, an annual average of 1.6% of Australians aged 15 + (or ~ 308,000 people a year) experienced home damage caused by floods, cyclones or bushfires. Such damage increases the probability of changing address within 1 year by 56%, displacing an annual average of 22,261 Australians. Cumulatively, this amounts to ~ 312,000 people displaced by climate-induced home damage between 2009 and 2022. Importantly, this type of climate-induced mobility is not evenly spread across the population. Contrary to findings from the Global South, we find no evidence of “entrapment effects”, except for uninsured homeowners. Instead, our results indicate that over 80% of climate-displaced Australians come from the bottom two income quartiles, with the poorest 3% accounting for 14% of the displaced population. The most disadvantaged Australians thus face a double vulnerability: they are both more likely to sustain home damage from extreme weather events and more likely to be displaced. These findings bear important implications for adaptation strategies and policy responses to natural disasters.Euphorbia hirta (E. hirta), commonly known as Asthma weed, is a medicinal plant widely used for its diverse therapeutic properties. Our study addresses gaps in the understanding of its distribution, and ethnobotanical practices ofE. hirtain Kisongo and Kikwe wards in the Arusha region of Tanzania, and includes an examination of how land use types and environmental conditions affect its density. Additionally, we explore traditional knowledge and practices related toE. hirtaamong the Meru and Maasai ethnic groups. We collected data through ecological surveys from 300 plots and ethnobotanical interviews from 154 households. Our results revealed thatE. hirtathrives in anthropogenically influenced environments such as settlements and grazing lands. Kruskal-Wallis and Wilcoxon rank-sum tests indicate significant differences inE. hirtadensity among land use types and wards. Generalized Linear Models highlight the impact of environmental factors, with lower elevations, higher precipitation, and temperature positively affectingE. hirtadensity. Ethnobotanical surveys showed significant differences in the use ofE. hirtabetween the Meru and Maasai ethnic groups, with a high prevalence of use for urinary tract infections and respiratory conditions. We underscore the need for targeted conservation strategies and the integration of traditional knowledge into modern healthcare practices to ensure the sustainable use and conservation ofE. hirta, benefiting both biodiversity and community health.Emergent bilingual children with disabilities are represented across many student subgroups which are disproportionately affected by rigid disciplinary policies and behavioral support systems, as well as exclusionary policy implementation in general and special education. This qualitative study investigated how teachers read and enacted policies to correct, eliminate, or otherwise change emergent bilingual students’ behavior and social interactions in a culturally, racially, and linguistically diverse mid-sized urban school district. The findings of this study offer suggestions for teachers and teacher educators as they endeavor to disrupt inequitable outcomes of behavioral policies on emergent bilingual students with and without disabilities.A growing body of evidence suggests that leisure-time physical activity (LTPA) impacts one’s mental health (MH) positively. The suggested MH benefits of LTPA may present a promising avenue to promote the MH of immigrants/refugees, who often face various stressors that may impede their MH. The CAN-HEAL study aimed to examine LTPA needs as they pertain to MH among Arab Canadians. The study adopted a collaborative community-based participatory research and integrated knowledge translation approach. Three methods were triangulated: qualitative interviews, Photovoice and a quantitative survey. A combination of sampling strategies (convenience, purposive and snowball) was utilized to recruit 60 socio-demographically diverse Arab Canadian participants. The study was informed by an integrated bio-psycho-socio-cultural framework. Although participants were knowledgeable of recommendations and MH benefits of LTPA, a high prevalence of physical inactivity (87%) was found. Intersections between age, gender, socio-economic and employment status, length of residency, and immigration status were associated with substantial LTPA inequities and negative MH within Arab communities. Older adults and low-income participants reportedsignificantlylower LTPA levels than younger adults and those with higher income. Female participants reported lower LTPA levels than their male counterparts. Study findings demonstrate that the LTPA-MH relationship among Arab Canadians is multi-faceted, with various LTPA-related bio-psycho-socio-cultural pathways/mechanisms influencing Arab Canadians’ MH. Intersectoral collaboration is required to implement a co-created community- and political-level action plan to address LTPA inequities and achieve health equity for Arab Canadians and other similar vulnerable groups.The paper examines the relationship between the settlement intentions of Ukrainian immigrants and structural integration measures implemented at the local level in Poland. For this purpose, the example of Lodz, a large city in central Poland where large immigration has recently taken place, is analysed. The study was based on a survey of the settlement plans of two Ukrainian immigrant groups: those who moved to Lodz for work or educational purposes (pre-war migrants) and those who found refuge there after Russia’s attack on Ukraine in 2022 (forced migrants). It showed that many Ukrainians were undecided about settling in Lodz, although the pre-war migrants were more willing to stay there than the refugees. Even though both groups have followed different paths of integration into Polish society due to the dissimilar periods of arrival, legal statuses and resources resulting from the distinct polices addressed to labour migrants and refugees, two hypotheses were formulated to verify the assumption that receiving public support and being employed positively impacted their settlement intentions. The analysis demonstrated a statistical correlation only between settlement plans and public support received by the pre-war migrants. Since they received less assistance than the refugees, their expectations in this regard were higher. In turn, the relationship between having a job and further settlement was statistically significant only for the refugees. The majority of pre-war migrants had a job and this factor did not determine their willingness to remain in Lodz so much. The research findings emphasised the importance of tailoring local policies to the needs of different immigrant groups, mainly in job placement, professional retraining, learning Polish or providing housing.PurposeA number of studies have explored patients’ subjective experience of waiting for spinal surgery, however, they did so through an investigation conducted post-operatively. Thus, the aim of this study was to explore the experience of patients while still on the waitlist for lumbar spinal arthrodesis.MethodsThis qualitative study of semi-structured interviews was conducted at an orthopedic research institute in Italy. The interview track was developed by a team of professionals (physiotherapists, orthopedic surgeon, psychologist) and consisted of 40 questions. Fifteen patients, 10 females and 5 males aged between 23 and 80 years, waiting for spinal arthrodesis were interviewed. The interviews were performed, transcribed and analyzed by the multiprofessional team through thematic analysis using a reflexive approach.ResultsFive main themes were generated:(1) Impact of persistent pain on patients’ physical and psychological functioning; (2) Fear of the unknown and uncertainties; (3) Hope and regaining normality; (4) The impact of the unpredictability of the waiting time; (5) Need for better communication and information on the care pathway. Two minor themes were also produced.ConclusionsThese findings highlighted that patients on the waiting list for spinal arthrodesis need more certainty about waiting times, better communication with hospital staff, more thorough information about their care pathway. This could help patients feel more confident and may lead to more adequate expectations before surgery.Trial RegistrationThe study protocol was registered on ClinicalTrials.gov database on 14/03/2022 with ID number NCT06323694.Given the extensive duration and heightened uncertainties in lifestyles, migration may profoundly shape individuals’ life-course trajectories through its influence on one’s family life. Using a mixed-method approach, this study examines how migration influences divorce in China based on data from the 2012 China Family Panel Studies and 127 in-depth interviews conducted in 2015. Results show that migrant men are more likely to experience divorce than their non-migrant counterparts. The patterns are less salient for women and rural migrants, possibly attributed to the greater stigma associated with divorce among these groups than among their male and urban counterparts. Qualitative interviews reveal the underlying mechanisms. Specifically, more liberal attitudes and weaker social controls in the receiving communities than in their places of origin, limited time spent with their partners, and unstable lifestyles result in more divorces for migrants. To address potential selection bias, I estimate the treatment effects of migration based on propensity-score matching, and the results are consistent with the above findings.PurposeTo assess the health related quality of life (HRQoL) and sexual function related to urinary incontinence (UI) severity among women with overweight or obesity.MethodsFrom September 2023 to January 2024, a cross-sectional was conducted among women seeking weight loss with overweight or obesity focusing on the symptoms and effects of UI. The degree of UI severity, UI-specific HRQoL, sexual function, and generic HRQoL were detected via Incontinence Modular Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence Short Form (ICIQ-UI-SF), Incontinence Impact Questionnaire-Short Form (IIQ-7), Short-form Prolapse Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire (PISQ-12), and European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions 5-Level questionnaire (EQ-5D-5 L) respectively.ResultsOut of 1205 valid responses, 564 (46.8%) reported UI with 354 classified as mild, 179 as moderate, and 31 as severe based on ICIQ-UI-SF scores. The mean age and body mass index of the respondents were 36.65 years and 29.9 kg/m², respectively. Individuals with more severe symptoms of UI exhibited correspondingly lower levels of UI-specific HRQoL, sexual function, and generic HRQoL. Although the correlations were weak, the severity of UI symptoms measured by ICIQ-UI-SF and IIQ-7 were significantly correlated with the mean utility values (r=-0.335, and − 0.351,P<0.001) of EQ-5D-5 L especially in the domains of anxiety/depression symptoms (r= 0.339 and 0.322,P<0.001).ConclusionNearly half of women seeking weight loss with overweight or obesity may experience UI, which significantly affects HRQoL and sexual function. The severity of UI symptoms is significantly correlated with the generic HRQoL measured by EQ-5D-5 L, especially in the domain of anxiety/depression symptoms.IntroductionUrethral injuries are the most severe injuries caused by high-energy mechanisms such as traffic accidents, which have significant long-term serious consequences on the quality of life of the injured.ObjectivesExploration of lived experiences of urethral injury in traffic accident victims is the main goal of this study.MethodsThis is a phenomenological qualitative study among men suffering from urethral injuries due to traffic accidents and referred to hospitals for urethroplasty in Iran. Sixteen in-depth interviews were conducted with 15–59-year-old injured men from August 2022 to May 2023 using a semi-structured questionnaire at Shohada Hospital, considering maximum variation and achieving saturation. For data analysis, Colizzi’s analysis method was implemented in MaxQDA2020. Lincoln’s and Guba’s criteria were assessed to achieve the trustworthiness of the study.ResultsFive main themes emerged from the interviews: Urethral Injury resulting from traffic accidents as a Complex, Unknown Problem with a general lack of public awareness, Unpleasant Experience with Permanent Suffering from pain, shame, regret, isolation, Urethral Injury Causes Regret and Loss of Normalcy, Impact on Sexual and Social Identity, and its long-term consequences as neglected health and socio-economic issues are the unmet needs of the injured patients.ConclusionThe majority of expressions related to low public awareness and poor infrastructure. There are needs neglected by public services, especially health care services. Alongside wresting with these issues, considering policies to support this vulnerable people, and their well-being, quality of life and prevent further damage in terms of physical, social and mental health is an axiom.How does newspaper-based event data compare to a government data source? While scholars have long recognized the importance of and biases present in newspaper-based event data, few studies have compared newspaper reports with official government data to better understand the severity and impact of such biases. We develop this comparison in the context of riots, a form of violent collective action that represents an important middle ground between peaceful protests and protracted civil conflict. Using newly collected police precinct-level government data from India, we compare these data to a high-quality newspaper source. Though similar at the aggregate level, newspaper riot reports correlate poorly with government data at the local level. We model the frequency of newspaper and government riot reports based on literacy, location, and other demographic characteristics to better understand the discrepancies between these two sources. We conclude that newspaper riot data does partially reflect aggregate riot trends, but the newspaper editorial process also plays an important role. Government data is better for within country comparisons and for analyzing event trends over time. Our findings suggest that using collective action event data from both sources may help ensure that results are not driven by biases in either data source.Political science research has assessed how racial attitudes influence political behavior. However, less is known about the political effects of anti-Asian views, even as anti-Asian sentiment resurfaced during the pandemic. We theorize that the linkage of COVID-19 to Asian Americans by political elites activated anti-Asian animosity and shaped vote choice during the 2020 election. Using cross-sectional over time and panel data from the American National Election Studies, we find that holding more anti-Asian attitudes was not associated with Republican vote choice between 2008–2016, including when Donald Trump first ran. However, anti-Asian views became strongly related to voting for Trump in 2020. Further panel analysis demonstrates evidence that anti-Asian views measured prior in 2016 increased the likelihood of vote switching to the Republican Party in 2020. We conclude by discussing the potentially persisting political effects of anti-Asian attitudes in an environment continuously characterized by anti-Asian hate and especially during future election cycles that may feature increasingly diverse candidates of Asian heritage, running for elective office across various levels of government—including for the presidency. This study contributes to research on how and when racial attitudes influence political behavior and suggests, again, the centrality of race and ethnicity in American Politics.Despite a lack of consensus on the most effective methods for measuring corruption, a variety of initiatives have been launched over the past decade. This paper contributes to the evolving field by arguing for the integration of frequency, cost, and local significance, into a three-dimensional approach for the development of enhanced metrics. After revisiting the history of corruption measurement, each proposed dimension is discussed by reference to past initiatives and the relevant literature. While the frequency and cost of corruption are discussed based on the varying degrees of attention received over the years, I propose that “significance” represents a third and necessary dimension, capturing the moral severity of corruption within different societal contexts. Taken as a unified whole, the proposed multidimensional approach is argued to have the potential for a more accurate depiction of corruption, enhancing also the clarity and accountability of corruption metrics. By accounting for frequency, cost, and significance, three-dimensional metrics are expected to lay the groundwork for more effective policy responses and deepen our understanding of the complexities inherent in the corruption phenomenon.The effectiveness of governments in addressing the Covid-19 pandemic has been analyzed through numerous perspectives, including state authority, capacity, and legitimacy. In Hong Kong, incumbent political tensions and lack of trust in government potentially weakened public support for official Covid-19 mitigation measures, which included a government-mandated mobile application to monitor personal movements and contacts. This episode invites academic inquiry about public trust in policies and associated technology. Based on a 2022 survey of more than 5,000 residents, this study finds that support for Hong Kong’s LeaveHomeSafe application is associated with, among other factors, a predisposition to cooperate with government in sharing personal data. Several control variables, including age, social media use, and vaccination status, are also associated with support for the application. Trust in policies that use technology and data, and agreement that the government was effective in managing the spread of Covid-19, do not significantly associate with public support for the application. This study deepens scholarly understandings about the distinction between public trust in government and public trust in government technology, a topic of recent interest in the context of smart cities and rapid advancements in artificial intelligence.A growing number of families in the US are caring for children with identified disabilities. As demonstrated in previous studies, there is reason to be concerned about the economic well-being of children with disabilities and their families. However, much of the existing evidence is drawn from older data that do not reflect recent increases in disability diagnoses or relevant economic and policy changes. Using recent nationally representative data from the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP), we offer updated evidence on the economic well-being of households of children with disabilities. Our regression models suggest that families with a child with a disability are more likely to experience food insecurity, and, on average, have lower income-to-poverty ratios than other households with children. We discuss implications for practitioners, policymakers, and researchers.Based on the microdata from the China Household Finance Survey (CHFS), this paper empirically studies the impact of aging on household economic vulnerability from the asset allocation perspective. Households can be classified into four categories according to the allocation of liquid and non-liquid assets: P-HtM (poor hand-to-mouth), W-HtM (wealthy hand-to-mouth), P-nHtM (poor non-HtM) and W-nHtM (wealthy non-HtM). The results show that the elderly ratio will significantly amplify household economic vulnerability, and only W-HtM households can significantly alleviate this effect. The elderly ratio mainly enlarges household economic vulnerability by increasing health risks. Heterogeneity tests show that the impact of aging on household economic vulnerability is more pronounced for younger householders, midwest households, and non-stable employment households. The findings provide several policy implications for supervising and preventing household economic risks under the background of rapid aging in China.The article addresses the tension between the internalization of a violent border regime intent on preempting migrant arrivals and the everyday democratic struggle against that regime. It builds on ethnographic fieldwork in Rome to illuminate conflicting political imaginations and existing practices of the already plural, albeit unequal, Italian polity. On the one hand, we see a bordered democracy. This democracy keeps investing in nationalizing itself, by fortifying the Mediterranean as a lethal border and by shoring up social, economic, and racialized boundaries. On the other hand, there is also an emerging migrant democracy. This migrant democracy actively works on two interrelated fronts: to build a more democratic, pluralistic, and egalitarian polity, and to reform how legal and physical access to the polity is governed in the first place. The article argues that, on both fronts, the anti-Fascist Constitution of Italy offers a viable political and ideological framework. More generally, the article proposes that if democratic politics and constitutional arguments are to produce more than a rhetorical edifice for democracy, they need to attend to the social, economic, and racialized inequalities of life in common.There is no figure more controversial in Western sinology, and yet so little-known outside of it, than China scholar and CCP supporter Daniel A. Bell. This essay introduces Bell’s work to a general audience and engages him on questions central to Chinese and Western politics. Is the USA or China the greater danger to peace? What is the point of electoral politics? Is the CCP, for all its flaws, a virtuous party? Can any party be virtuous? How is the PRC best characterized conceptually? For instance, is it still a “totalitarian” regime or something quite different, as most China scholars assert? I chart Bell’s path to Confucianism before addressing his explanation of Western hostility to China. Bell’s critique of Western electoral democracy is then summarized, and his alternative to it evaluated. A penultimate section contrasts Bell’s approach to the PRC with that of another maverick foreign scholar, Simon Leys. The conclusion considers Bell’s perspective on history and anticipates his future writings on China.Historians have predominantly examined the phenomenon of time through a qualitative lens. Historians typically regard the measurement of time utilisation and scarcity as more suited for analysing contemporary issues, where statistical data from surveys are readily available. It is widely assumed that the measurement of time is not a viable field of inquiry within social history and historical sociology due to the scarcity of sources. In this article, we challenge this assumption by adapting the methodology commonly employed by economic historians in studying absolute poverty to investigate time poverty indirectly. We introduce a novel indicator, the Temporal Deficit Ratio of Households, which focuses on household units rather than individual perspectives. We contend that this proposed methodology can be developed utilising information derived from traditional employment surveys, encompassing household composition, age, education, and causes of unemployment. Numerous underdeveloped and developing countries, particularly in Latin America and Asia, conducted such surveys during the latter half of the twentieth century. In the final stage of our research, we apply the proposed methodology to the case of Chile, which lacked time-use surveys during the twentieth century but possesses regular employment surveys dating back to 1957. Our analysis concludes that, between 1960 and 1995, despite rapid economic growth and a decrease in absolute income poverty, the availability of time for families to engage in personal care for working-age members and provide external care for dependents remained consistent.Underserved communities were disproportionately affected during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Limited data exist on the impact of COVID-19 among refugee populations because refugee status is not often classified in electronic medical record (EMR) systems, unlike race or primary language. The study aim was to evaluate the PCR-based prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in a delivering population over the first 2 years of the pandemic by refugee status, ethnicity, insurance, and vaccination status. A cross-sectional study examined parturient patients admitted to an urban safety-net hospital from May 2020 to May 2022 who were tested for SARS-CoV-2on admission. Percentages and prevalence ratios of SARS-CoV-2 between refugee status, insurance type, vaccination status, and race/ethnicity were calculated across four time periods, corresponding with variant surges of the pandemic. 3,502 patients delivered, 476 (13.6%) were refugees. Self-pay (46.4%) and Medicaid (46.4%) were the most frequent insurance types with a Hispanic predominance (64.5%) by race/ethnicity. Only 12.8% of patients received at least one vaccine before delivery: 13.2% in non-refugees versus 10.3% refugees 192 (5.5%) of the mothers tested positive during the study period with 6.1% refugees positive versus 5.4% among non-refugees, (prevalence ratio, 1.13;P= 0.53, 95% confidence interval [0.77, 1.66]). Positive tests ranged between 4.7% and 6.3% across insurance types and between 4.4% and 7.5% across race/ethnicity categories. The highest prevalence ratio (refugee/non-refugee) of 2.01 was during the Delta Surge (P= 0.12, 95% confidence interval [0.84, 4.82]) and the lowest prevalence ratio of 0.64 was during the Omicron Surge (P= 0.21, 95% CI [0.32, 1.30]). Among refugees when examined by primary language, 51.7% of positive tests were from those speaking languages of the African Great Lakes region (Kinyarwanda, Kirundi, Swahili, Kiswahili). We observed only small differences in SARS-CoV-2 prevalence between refugees and non-refugees or in vaccination status. Variations in prevalence ratio were seen by refugee status by variant surge. Subsets of the refugee population, when grouped by language/region, appeared to be more affected. This warrants future research on the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic on specific refugee communities, rather than refugee communities as a heterogenous unit.The 2021 assault on the United States (US) Congress was the result of a prolonged process in which dangerous forms of identification, solidarity, and restricted citizenship were activated among a significant segment of American society. Drawing upon five leading Mexican newspapers, this paper analyzes the efforts made within the Mexican civil sphere to control the meaning of the assault on the US Capitol. By doing so, this paper expands the scope of civil sphere theory by revealing the international connections among discourses in which civil and anti-civil semantics seek to translate the threats to democracy highlighted by this event. This translation represents an effort on the part of the distinct communicative and regulatory institutions to shape global semantics regarding the meaning of democracy. At an empirical level, our findings provide compelling evidence regarding the convergence between right-wing and left-wing illiberal strands in the public sphere. These contributions to civil sphere theory can draw researchers’ attention to the ways in which global disputes over events that occur in specific national spaces are constructed. Additionally, it broadens the analytical horizon for future research on civil dynamics in Latin America and other regions that face disputes over the meaning-making of contemporary democracies.We followed the COVID-19 pandemic in Manaus, one of the epicenters of COVID-19 in Brazil, using an epidemiological mathematical model and made five main conclusions. First, in early 2022, the actual cases exceed officially reported data by up to 8 times. Second, despite vaccination campaigns, the collective immunity threshold necessary was insufficient to contain severe cases of COVID-19. Next, the low observed mortality demonstrated the effectiveness of vaccination. Next, the drop in the vaccination rate combined with immune escape by the Omicron sub-variants (BA.2.12.1, BA.4, and BA.5) resulted in new wave after November 2022. Finally, to minimize severe cases of COVID-19, we need to raise vaccination thresholds above 90–95% of the entire population including children aged 6 months and older and require booster doses at least in four-month intervals. This approach would help to prevent severe cases of COVID-19 that cause hospitalizations and deaths.Nomadic pastoralism is still practiced by around one-third of the Mongolian population. Recent socio-economic constraints have challenged pastoral livelihoods and rising livestock numbers threaten overall rangeland health and biodiversity conservation. In the Mongolian Gobi, herder households fully depend on livestock production but little is known about their livelihood trends and potential compatibility with protected area goals. We combined interview data in the Great Gobi B strictly protected area (SPA) with secondary data on regional and national herder households to determine the importance of social networks, willingness to continue a herding lifestyle, and degree of involvement in protected area (PA) management. Our descriptive data confirm that herding is no longer centred on a subsistence lifestyle but rather around cashmere production. Contrary to sustainability goals, especially in protected areas, herder households continue to increase livestock numbers in response to high expenditures in the economic reality of a market economy. We conclude that herders in the Great Gobi B SPA are reaching neither socio-economically nor ecologically sustainable livestock numbers which challenge herders’ livelihoods and PA management alike. We recommend enhancing communication between the PA management and the herding community and increasing participatory conservation activities. National strategies are needed to resolve the current dilemma of increasing livestock numbers to meet livelihood demands and the growing threat to rangeland health.This study explored how seven Montessori teachers from across three countries perceive and practice literacy. One-on-one semi-structured interviews were conducted with each participant over the 2022–23 school year. Qualitative analyses, in which interview transcripts were coded using an open-coding technique, revealed three themes about how Montessori teachers from Canada, Mexico, and Italy perceive and practice literacy: 1. Emphasis on oral language; 2. Explicit and systematic instruction; and 3. Literacy-rich environments. Understanding how Montessori teachers perceive and practice literacy can provide insight into the patterns of literacy learning across geographical contexts. In particular, findings from this study highlight the effectiveness of the Montessori approach across diverse settings and how literacy learning in Montessori classrooms can adapt to different cultural contexts and languages.BackgroundPhysical inactivity is a major global public health concern and a recognized risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). However, the relationship between physical activity and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in people with T2DM using longitudinal data remains underexplored. We aim to identify the improvement in HRQOL associated with physical activity in Australian middle-aged and older adults using population-based longitudinal data.MethodsData for this study were drawn from waves 9, 13, 17, and 21 of the Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) Survey. We constructed an unbalanced panel consisting of 2,472 person-year observations from 1,270 unique individuals living with T2DM. We used a random effects Generalized Least Squares (GLS) model to examine the relationship between physical activity and HRQOL in people with T2DM.ResultsThe regression results showed that physical activity is positively associated with physical component summary (PCS), mental components summary (MCS), and health state utility value (SF-6D). People with T2DM engaging in physical activity less than once or 1 or 2 times per week had a higher mean score for PCS (β = 4.28, 95% CI: 3.38, 5.17), MCS (β = 2.36, 95% CI: 1.38, 3.34), and SF-6D utility value (β = 0.04, 95% CI: 0.03, 0.05) than their counterparts engaged in no physical activity. Similarly, engaging in physical activity three times daily per week had a further elevated mean score for PCS (β = 6.65, 95% CI : 5.72, 7.60), MCS (β = 3.75, 95% CI: 2.71, 4.79), and SF-6D utility value (β = 0.07, 95% CI: 0.06, 0.08).ConclusionOur results showed that physical activity is positively associated with improved HRQOL among people with T2DM. Public health initiatives should prioritize health education and community programs to promote physical activity across all demographics to enhance HRQOL in people living with T2DM.PurposePhysical functioning and symptom severity are important factors in the experience of people with living with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This study evaluates the reliability, validity, and meaningful within-person change (MWPC) thresholds of 2 patient-reported outcome (PRO) measures in NSCLC: the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS®) Physical Function (PF) short form (SF) 8c and the Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Symptom Assessment Questionnaire (NSCLC-SAQ).MethodsData came from 2 Phase 3 clinical trials among people living with NSCLC. PROMIS PF-SF analyses included data from 300 participants in the PAPILLON trial, and NSCLC-SAQ analyses included 615 participants in the MARIPOSA 2 trial.Prespecified expected relationships between target PRO measures and relevant study variables were used to evaluate validity evidence. Additionally, MWPC thresholds were estimated using anchor- and distribution-based analyses.ResultsBoth PRO measures exhibited adequate internal consistency for clinical trial use. All examined correlations with reference variables and score differences between clinically meaningful groups conformed to expectations for both measures. Estimated thresholds for meaningful worsening were a decrease of 6–7 points on the PROMIS PF-SF and an increase of 2–3 points on NSCLC-SAQ.ConclusionsThis study is the first to examine longitudinal measurement properties of PROMIS PF-SF and investigates thresholds for meaningful change on the PROMIS PF-SF and NSCLC-SAQ measures. Results support the validity of these measures in NSCLC and aid the interpretation of clinically meaningful change in scores over time.BackgroundTo understand the impact of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB) and its treatment on quality of life, we analysed patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) among presumptive ETPB patients.MethodsEuroQol’s five-dimensional three-level (EQ-5D-3L) questionnaire and the Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS) were used to measure PROMs by 274 presumptive EPTB patients at pre- and post-treatment stages. The patients were categorised as TB and non-TB by using a composite reference standard. Following the EuroQol suggested analysis methods, we calculated the health utility summary measure at the pre- and post-treatment stages. The health state density curve and index were used to analyse inequality in reported health profiles. We investigated factors associated with EPTB patients’ health utility through multivariable regression at the pre-treatment stage.ResultsThe analysis of PROMs showed both physical (mobility, self-care, usual activities) and psychological (pain, discomfort, anxiety & depression) health affected by all EPTB manifestations (lymphadenitis, pleuritis, meningitis and others). Moreover, we found inequality in reported health profiles across disease manifestations at pre- and post-treatment stages. Post-treatment, we found improvement in PROMs and no reports of extreme-level health problems. However, some problems persisted across all dimensions of EPTB manifestations. We found 100% improvement in pleuritis and meningitis manifestations. Socioeconomic status, type of health facility attended, and patients’ working capacity were associated with health utility.ConclusionDespite post-treatment improvement in health, inequality of reported health states by EPTB manifestations persisted, though decreased. This highlights that holistic patient- and health system-level interventions addressing the impact of illness should consider EPTB by its manifestations, not as a single disease entity.Analog behavior observations are an important component of an evidence-based approach to assessing parent–child interactions. One threat to the external validity of these observations is reactivity and its purported influence on parent and child behaviors. The effects of reactivity on caregiver-child observations are relatively unknown, and to date, there are no known published attempts to document reactivity using a parent report measure. We examined the psychometrics of the Observation Reactivity Questionnaire (ORQ), a 29-item parent report measure of reactivity, operationalized here as a composite including parent report for whether a clinic-based observation represents home behavior (perceived unrepresentativeness), whether a clinic-based observation represents typical parent and child behavior (perceived unrepresentative parent and child behavior), perceived difficulty of the observation task, and perceived discomfort with the observation task. A community sample of 55 parent–child dyads (parents aged 23–56, children aged 2–10) completed a manualized, analog behavior observation prior to completing the ORQ. We investigated psychometric properties of the ORQ quantitative items and compiled qualitative data wherein parents described their reasoning for their responses. Internal consistency of the ORQ was adequate, although discriminative validity evidence was mixed. On average, parents were significantly more likely to report higher levels of reactivity in themselves compared to their children. We concluded that the ORQ shows promise as a new measure of reactivity during observations of parent–child interactions. By quantifying and accounting for reactivity during analog behavior observations, researchers and clinicians can decrease external validity threat concerns in the contexts of research and parent training interventions.IntroductionAlmost all parents seek online child-related information. This study focuses on parents’ experience of using information from an easy-to-read parenting website,Naître et Grandir(N&G), specifically parents with low socioeconomic status (SES). SES is correlated with health literacy, a major determinant of child education and health. In January 2019, the Information Assessment Method (IAM) questionnaire was improved and implemented in a smartphone application (IAM + N&Gsmart) to reach more low SES parents.ObjectivesWe measured the influence of IAM + N&Gsmart on the frequency with which low SES parents responded to the IAM survey of N&G webpages and the relative proportions of anticipated benefits of the N&G content. We also compared these benefits among fathers and mothers.MethodsThis was a 4-year prospective time series. For each N&G webpage, parents were invited to complete an IAM questionnaire and report anticipated outcomes. IAM data were collected before (2017–2018) and after (2019–2020) the intervention (IAM + N&Gsmart launch) from Quebec parents of 0–8-year-old children who completed at least one IAM questionnaire. Descriptive and inferential statistical analyses were applied.ResultsParticipants completed 10,362 IAM questionnaires. Low SES participants anticipated more benefits than other participants, and particularly low SES fathers more than low SES mothers. The proportion of responses and reported benefits from low SES participants increased post-intervention.Conclusions for PracticeResults suggest that increasing literacy-oriented web content can lead to greater benefits among low SES parents, and that increasing father awareness and father-inclusive content can lead to even greater benefits among low SES fathers.This article seeks to explain the growth of identification and support for the Palestinian cause over the last decades from a regional concern to a global movement. What are the mechanisms that made this possible? This problematic is addressed within a cultural sociological framework, focusing on the cultural work of intellectuals and the collective actions of social movements in articulating and dispersing the idea of a distinctive Palestinian identity and cause. This is a form of cultural nationalism, where claims to nationhood are rooted in the idea of a distinctive, ancient culture. Focus is on the role of intellectuals in the articulation of collective identification and the cultural representations through which it is dispersed. The prime data supported this argument consists of aesthetic representations like novels, films, and photography.This qualitative case study addresses the need to strengthen the understanding of fathers’ communicative experiences with teachers within Chinese kindergartens from the perspectives of directors, teachers, fathers and their partners. Using Bourdieusian theory, these data were explored to identify fathers’ and teachers’ beliefs and practices that may hinder their communication intended to assist children’s development in the ECE field. Data were gathered through documents provided by kindergartens, fieldnotes (observation data), personal communication (interviews after observation) and semi-structured interviews. The findings indicate that teachers’ gendered perceptions act as a cultural barrier hindering communication between teachers and fathers. Structural barriers include “useless and formalistic information”, “unsatisfactory feedback” and “lack of teacher training on communication”, all of which increase tensions in establishing positive and effective communication between fathers and teachers and reveal the unequal position between fathers and teachers, fathers and mothers. Additionally, fathers felt embarrassed or uncomfortable when communicating with teachers and tended to interrupt teachers less and respect teachers’ views. Further investigations are recommended to examine the impact of more open, timely, individual, and transactional communication targeting fathers.Recent trends in biblical scholarship that have generated new interest in the book of Psalms and in the voice of lamentation may in turn present new opportunities for the liturgical use of psalms of lament. Drawing on the SIFT approach to biblical hermeneutics, the present study tested the ways in which feeling types and thinking types may evaluate Psalm 74 differently. The data demonstrated that feeling types and thinking types approach a psalm of lament in quite different ways. For thinking types, this is a satisfying intellectual exercise. They are caught up by the theological questions raised and fascinated by the capacity of the human mind to challenge God to keep God’s side of the covenantal agreement with the people. For feeling types, this is a journey of the heart as they identify with the protagonists rehearsing the source and cause of their pain. Preachers and liturgists need to be aware of this contrast.EU migration policy for labour migrants has a complex history and an unforeseeable future regardless of its high relevance, as it sways between the opposing political positions in favour of and against open borders. By combining normative political theory and policy design analysis, this paper aims at detecting points of reconciliation between cosmopolitan and communitarian approaches to labour migrants’ issues with the aim to contribute to EU migration policy development. A systematic empirical analysis rests on qualitative methodology and is guided by the rules of thematic analysis. Detailed coding of policy goals within diverse EU documents in the last 50 years revealed two models of EU migration policy goals targeting labour migrants: the political and security model and the economic and social model, both encompassing the admission and membership of labour migrants in the host communities. The main findings show that when it comes to third-country nationals, the issue of labour migrants’ entry is approached from a position coherent with communitarianism, while cosmopolitan views are more present at the level of their membership. The research has identified potential areas of reconciliation that should be explored in future policymaking: greater inclusion of labour migrants in decision-making processes; enhancing assistance to third countries; linking more closely the freedom of movement, antidiscrimination, and equality to admission rules; further strengthening of the freedom of religion, particularly for the employment of legally admitted long-term migrants; and building stronger accommodation of domestic cultures to migrants, not only vice versa.Sexual well-being has long been an area of societal exclusion for disabled people. This exclusion includes control over bodies and relationships, access to representations and public spaces, and autonomy regarding identity choices, lifestyles, and experiences. Innovative and anti-ableist approaches are needed to support sexual well-being among young disabled people. This phenomenological study aimed to explore how social workers can support journeys to achieve sexual well-being from the perspectives of young disabled people. A total of 24 semi-structured interviews were carried out with individuals between the ages of 17 and 24 in Ontario, Canada, who identify themselves as disabled and have had prior interactions with a social worker. The participants had a range of disabilities, including developmental, physical, and mental health. The majority of participants reported having more than one disability. Participants reflected on practice approaches they appreciated when social workers supported them with areas related sexual well-being. More so, they envisioned and recommended various aspects to improve the care and support from social workers. Their suggestions for social workers included increased time and space to develop a therapeutic relationship, unlearning ableism and practicing sex-positivity, accounting for the diverse lived experiences of disabled people, increasing disability representation in social work, and providing and brokering accessible and holistic practice approaches services. This study highlights the importance of holistic and comprehensive social work practice, including sex-positive approaches and multidisciplinary care.This study reports the prevalence of inpatient, emergency department (ED), and outpatient mental health service usage of children/youth before, during, and after onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in Rhode Island. Additionally, we identify significant changes in usage across these time periods and the prevalence of each service type contingent upon various demographic profiles. This retrospective observational analysis used Rhode Island Medicaid claims to identify the unique children and youth who used inpatient, ED, and outpatient mental health services across three key time periods: pre-onset (March 2019-February 2020); onset (March 2020-February 2021); and post-onset (March 2021-February 2022). We used z-tests to analyze changes in the proportion of children/youth who accessed these services in each period. We examined relationships between demographic characteristics and time period with chi-square tests. Significant decreases in inpatient and ED usage were identified from pre-onset to onset (p < .05). While inpatient nearly returned to pre-pandemic usage in post-onset, ED usage remained lower. Outpatient usage increased significantly leading up to the pandemic but remained at similar levels between pre-onset and post-onset. From pre-onset to post-onset, females grew as a percentage of all inpatient, ED, and outpatient users. Over this same period, the proportion of inpatient users aged 12–18 increased and the proportion of ED and outpatient users aged 19–24 increased. Female usage of mental health services increased significantly, and older children/youth seemed to drive any significant increases. Future public health and disaster preparedness policies should focus on the unique mental health needs of these socially vulnerable groups.For many children with significant behavioral health needs, the inability to obtain funding for adequate behavioral health care through private means results in parents “voluntarily” placing their child in the state’s child welfare system. This study investigated the association between states’ use of 1915(c) Medicaid waivers for children with behavioral health needs and state rates of voluntary foster care placements. This study used data from the Children’s Bureau Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS), from 2010 to 2019. Multilevel, linear regression models with state-year fixed-effects assessed the relationship between states’ use of a 1915(c) waiver and their total new entry voluntary foster care placement rates for children with behavioral or developmental health care needs, controlling for a variety of state-level policy and demographic characteristics. States’ use of 1915(c) waivers is significantly associated with lower total voluntary placement rates, both in total (β= -1.51 [-2.82, -0.21]) and proportionally (β=-1.03 [-2.07, 0.02]). HCBS Medicaid waivers targeting children with complex behavioral health needs may reduce state rates of voluntary foster care placements.Research has shown that parental involvement is regarded as a fundamental contributor to children’s school success but there are currently only a few measures available to assess the degree of parental involvement in children’s learning experiences. The Parent and Family Involvement in Education Survey (PFIES) was created to assess parent and family involvement in children’s educational activities and was administered in 2007 as part of the National Household Education Survey (NHES). Although the items from the PFIES were assumed to be meaningful descriptions of parent involvement in children’s educational activities, the utility of these items as a measure of parental involvement was never assessed. This study used items from the PFIES and examined them as a new measure called the Parent Involvement Survey (PIS). Specifically, the study examined the underlying factor structure, the internal consistency, and convergent validity of the emerging measure. The same population of parents were utilized for two samples (n= 315 andn= 316). The results provided support for a 29-item measure with an oblique six-factor solution. The new instrument shows promise as a parsimonious measure for assessing the level of parental involvement in young children’s learning and educational activities. With more accurate information about parental involvement, better management and intervention solutions can be created, which subsequently leads to improved child educational outcomes.PurposeThis study utilized a group-based dual-trajectory model to identify distinct dyadic quality of life (QoL) trajectories among young to middle-aged stroke couples and to analyze the predictive factors influencing these trajectories.MethodsA longitudinal study was conducted with 168 young to middle-aged stroke couples. Assessments at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months post-discharge included patients' functional recovery (modified Rankin Scale) and stroke couples' depression, anxiety, stress, benefit finding, social support, couple relationship, and QoL (12-item short-form health scale). Dyadic QoL trajectories were identified using a group-based dual-trajectory model. Stepwise logistic regression was employed to identify the predictors of the trajectory groups.ResultsThree subgroups of dyadic physical QoL trajectories were distinguished: "patients low increase—spouses moderate physical QoL" (15.4%), "patients moderate increase—spouses moderate physical QoL" (74.0%), and "patients moderate increase—spouses high physical QoL" (10.6%). Two subgroups of dyadic mental QoL trajectories were distinguished: "dyadic low increase mental QoL" (15.9%), and "dyadic high increase mental QoL" (84.1%). The trajectory groups were influenced by the patient's sex, functional recovery, depression, and the spouse's mutuality.ConclusionsThe group-based dual-trajectory model facilitates the identification of distinct dyadic QoL trajectories among stroke couples. These findings provide valuable insights for developing targeted interventions aimed at improving their QoL.ObjectivesIn cancer studies, assessment of patients’ physical function can provide insight into cancer-related symptoms and the side effects of treatment. Physical function can be assessed using patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs), which may or may not include a recall period—the amount of time the questionnaire asks the respondent to think back to answer the questions. More understanding is needed about how patients interpret and respond to items posed with different recall periods, and which recall period they actually use.Study Design and SettingWe conducted a qualitative study with 72 adults diagnosed with cancer to describe response processes when answering PROM items about physical function.ResultsWhen describing their physical function during concept elicitation interviews, most participants recalled their functioning over 1 month or more. When presented with PROM items with no recall period, the most used period was more than 4 weeks. When presented with a 7-day recall, the most used period was 7 days. However, almost 30% of responses used recall periods greater than 1 week.ConclusionIncluding a 7-day recall period improves recall consistency for patients when answering physical function PROM items, but there is still room for improvement. The inaccuracy of recall for PROMs in clinical trials influences the ability to calculate the change in treatment outcomes over time and may conceal or emphasize actual treatment effects.This study examines the spatial and temporal dimensions of the racial difference in depression risk using four waves (1, 3, 4, and 5) of data from The National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent to Adult Health (n = 5977). While previous research has explored the Black–White mental health paradox in the United States, the combined effects of neighborhood contexts and life course trajectories remain underexplored. This study employs linear probability models to assess cumulative effects of neighborhood disadvantage (ND) and coefficient growth-curve analysis to examine age trajectories of depression probability. The findings reveal that greater exposure to ND across the life course (Waves 1–5) are associated with an increased risk of adult depression (Wave 5) for Whites but related to a slightly decreased risk for Blacks. Trajectory analysis demonstrates that residence in disadvantaged neighborhoods increases the probability of depression more rapidly as Whites age compared to Blacks. These results highlight the importance of considering life course perspectives and neighborhood contexts in understanding racial mental health disparities and the racialized embodiment of neighborhood disadvantage.One Midwest, non-profit clinic aimed to increase access to contraceptive services by improving their care delivery process through the implementation of a population-specific, contraception education program. The program included patient education, timely follow-up appointments, and free contraception. In this quality improvement project, a total of twenty-two mostly Spanish-speaking women signed up for a group education session that lasted thirty minutes and was offered monthly. The session was led by a female, bilingual provider and focused on contraception benefits, side effects, and common myths. After the session, the clinic offered same-day initiation of contraception for oral contraceptives, Depo-Provera injections, and Nexplanon implants. In this clinic, offering the class in conjunction with immediate initiation of the chosen birth control method decreased the average time to care delivery, showing a positive impact on access to these essential services.The development of lobbying regulation in Ireland is often taken as a model of best practice internationally. The well-documented history of corruption in Ireland shows that developing regulations in this area would be a key part of an overall package of reform to increase transparency and ethics in politics. This piece will examine how the Irish legislation came into being, how it operates on a day-to-day basis, the legal and constitutional framework in which it operates, and the gaps that remain in creating a level playing field for all those that seek to communicate on matters of public interest and campaigning. This means that the article will not just be of value to legal scholars in the area but also to the wider disciplines while also developing policy lessons of value for other democracies who are attempting to balance the same issues. Therefore, there are many lessons to be learned from the Irish experience which are of value to other jurisdictions.Community-led routes to welcome refugees and migrants, such as community sponsorship, are often viewed as the devolution of the state’s resettlement and integration responsibilities to non-governmental actors. Yet, there remains a significant role for the state. This paper outlines the role of central, regional, and local government in community-led welcome by drawing from learning from Homes for Ukraine in the UK and the engagement of UK local authorities in the scheme using theories of the multi-level governance of migration. Launched in March 2022 in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Homes for Ukraine allows sponsors to ‘name’ Ukrainians to host in their homes for a minimum of 6 months. While the public and community support for the scheme was unprecedented, our analysis shows the state plays a key role in the scheme. The central government retains overall control of the scheme’s governance by regulating immigration status and the funding parameters for support. Local authorities have specifically defined responsibilities, including checking sponsors’ suitability, wider integration responsibilities, and acting as a ‘backstop’ in case of placement breakdown or beyond the lifetime of the support programme. Ultimately, we suggest that whilst community-led welcome widens the scope of actors involved in resettling and integrating newcomers, it cannot be viewed solely as a community alternative to government-led refugee resettlement and integration. Instead, we propose a conceptualisation of community-led welcome as an approach to resettlement and integration which requires effective multi-level governance for it to offer a durable solution to refugees and newcomers.Assisting children with homework can be a major stressor in Chinese parents’ lives. Drawing upon the Family Stress Model (FSM), our study examines the indirect effects of parental homework stress on children’s academic functioning, as well as the moderating effect of family socioeconomic status (SES). A pilot study is first conducted to develop and test a parental homework involvement style scale to capture the characteristics of supportive and controlling parental homework involvement in Chinese culture. In the main study, a total of 291 parent-child dyads participated in our survey. The results showed that parental homework stress is linked to negative aspects of children’s academic functioning through the chain mediation of lower levels of coparental support and supportive homework involvement. Multiple group path analysis revealed that, however, in low-income families, parental homework stress undermines children’s academic functioning through both reduced supportive involvement and increased controlling involvement, whereas in high-income families, this impact is channeled solely by the chain mediation of decreased coparental support and supportive involvement. Our study contributes to a better understanding of the parental homework stress process by applying the FSM to the homework context for the first time. It also adds to the homework involvement literature in exploring the potential antecedents of homework involvement styles.Most work on indicators of vocal confidence (and social influence work more broadly) examines linear relationships between variables. However, in some domains curvilinear (i.e., accelerating or decelerating) relationships may provide greater clarity in understanding human speech patterns. We review mixed past work on vocal speed as a case study, wherein faster vocal speed has been shown both to bolster and inhibit persuasion (e.g., by impairing processing). Across six total studies (Ntotal= 3,958), we show that faster speed initially increases perceived source confidence and message processing but eventually the increase attenuates or reverses. Correspondingly, vocal speed has a decelerating relationship to participants’ processing of persuasive messages, as revealed by two main processes: argument quality effects on attitudes, and the correspondence between thought valence and attitudes. The present work highlights the potential value of high-powered examinations of curvilinear relationships in non-verbal phenomenon for which speed is likely to play a role.PurposePatient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) are being used more frequently in total knee arthroplasty (TKA). By utilizing high-quality scales, surgeons can achieve a more comprehensive and accurate evaluation of the effectiveness of TKA surgery. Currently, there is no widely accepted conceptual model for TKA PROMs. The objective of this study is to fill this gap by developing a conceptual model and preliminary content for a PROM that is specifically designed for TKA patients in mainland China.MethodsThe study design consisted of three stages: (1) a targeted literature review followed by the formation of a conceptual model pool; (2) qualitative data collection involving experts and patients, leading to the development of the preliminary Chinese TKA PROM (CTP); and (3) review of the CTP by experts using the Delphi method, along with cognitive debriefing interviews with patients.Results64 patients and 28 experts took part in this study. The conceptual model focused on six key concepts: pain, symptom, function, quality of life, expectation, and satisfaction. To match the model, the authors developed a total of 35 items.ConclusionA conceptual model and preliminary content for CTP was developed with substantial participation from patients and a multidisciplinary group of experts. The integration of patient and clinical perspectives ensured a comprehensive representation of all relevant disease experiences and the focus of clinical practice. With further refinement through psychometric testing, the CTP is positioned to provide a standardized, comprehensive measure for research specific to Chinese TKA patients.Differences in the perceptions of illness between patients and caregivers are associated with negative health-related outcomes. However, little is known about the correlates of divergent perceptions of ADHD among diagnosed adolescents and their parents. This study applied the Common-Sense Model of Illness Representations (CSM) to examine how parent perceptions of ADHD, including divergent parent-adolescent perceptions, relate to coping, quality of life (QoL), and treatment adherence, among adolescents with ADHD. Participants were 63 adolescents diagnosed with ADHD (10–18 years, 79.3% male, mean age = 14.28,SD= 2.07) and their parents (78.8% mothers), recruited from clinics and support services. Self-report measures were completed by adolescents and parents in isolation from one another. Results from a series of hierarchical regressions indicated that adolescents held less pessimistic views of the disorder and believed it was less biologically based than did parents. Divergent parent-adolescent perceptions regardingtimelineandcauseswere significantly related to adolescent coping and QoL. Adolescents’ expectation of a shorter duration of ADHD was associated with reduced active coping. Their stronger attribution to insufficient efforts was associated with lower QoL. Although adolescents with a stronger belief in psychosocial causes exhibited poorer active coping and QoL, they exhibited greater active coping when their parents endorsed this belief. Taken together, these findings identify beneficial and detrimental beliefs about ADHD for both diagnosed adolescents and their parents. The results underscore the potential importance of beliefs about psychosocial causes to coping and well-being, as well as the importance of divergent parent-adolescent perceptions.This study examines the effect of risk communication styles (fear-based versus empowerment-based) on households’ earthquake preparedness. An online longitudinal study with intervention and control groups was conducted using a representative sample of the adult population in Israel. The change in the reported level of preparedness was assessed through Repeated Measures ANOVA with interaction effects for both the risk communication style and gender. The Analysis revealed a significant difference in reported levels of earthquake preparedness over time (F(1.697,303.70) = 102.58,p< 0.001; partialη2 = 0.36). However, no statistically significant interaction was found with the risk communication style (p= 0.55). Borderline significance (p= 0.04) was observed in the three-way interaction (time-intervention-gender). Gender (β= 0.19), age (β= 0.21), perceived earthquake likelihood (β= 0.14), and sense of preparedness (β= 0.28) were significant predictors in multivariate regression analysis. While consistently showing that participants exposed to empowering information reported higher earthquake preparedness, the research hypothesis was not substantiated. Recommendations for public health policy are discussed.This study explores the accelerating shift towards environmentalism in family business as global enterprises increasingly commit to sustainable development goals (SDGs). Specifically, it examines the challenges and capacities within the food and non-alcoholic beverages industry in Kosova, focusing on the integration of clean technology and renewable energy. Utilizing a quantitative approach, the research assesses the financial feasibility for firms to adopt green practices and explores the broader implications for market dynamics. The findings highlight significant opportunities and challenges that family businesses face, particularly in response to growing consumer demand for environmentally friendly products and services. This paper offers new insights into the complexities of corporate sustainability efforts and suggests strategies to enhance environmental responsibility in family business practices. By mapping the current landscape and identifying key barriers and facilitators to sustainable practices, this research contributes valuable perspectives to the ongoing discourse on corporate contributions to environmental sustainability.Early writing is an important early literacy skill related to later reading and writing development. Writing assessment and instruction, however, tends to focus on just part of early writing development, transcription (i.e., handwriting and spelling), whereas composing (i.e., text generation) is an essential component of early and later writing. In fact, several assessments of early writing do not include items that elicit composing and others provide composing items that are too challenging for early writers, yielding floor effects. This study provides evidence for a new approach for eliciting and scoring both transcription and composing from preschool age children. Study 1 provides evidence that within a structured and contextualized assessment in which children compose their own messages, young children can demonstrate transcription skills aligning with the skills they demonstrate on traditional writing assessments (e.g., letter and word writing). Study 2 provides evidence that the structured and contextualized assessment can elicit and score children’s transcription and composing skills such as relevance to the theme, idea generation, genre features, verbal-text match. These two studies provide evidence of item functioning for both transcription and composing items important for research and instructional practice.This paper is the first ethnographic study focusing on Asian American women’s experiences in electoral politics. It has three important contributions to the literature on Asian Americans’ panethnicity and political engagement. First, I illuminate the specific gendered and racialized position Asian American women occupy in the US formal political process today. I argue that, despite the ethnic differences or their long tenure in politics, the sexism within their panethnic or ethnic communities combined with racism from the non-Asian populations lead to their “doubly marginalized” position in politics. Second, I highlight the different stereotypes of East/Southeast Asian women and South Asian women operating in politics, offering a nuanced analysis of the racism targeting various Asian ethnicities, particularly those of women. Last, I expand the literature on panethnicity by demonstrating the emergence of a “gendered” Asian American panethnicity among Asian American women, which is less frequently discussed in the literature. Despite coming from different ethnic backgrounds, the similar experiences of sexism and racism among Asian American women enable their specific gendered panethnic solidarity, leading to their support of other Asian American women in politics.This paper investigates households’ financial fragility in twelve European countries to assess whether international differences are a matter of household characteristics and/or of country features. Financial fragility is characterized by not having income constraints, but by holding insufficient liquid assets to face unexpected expenses. The estimation results show that this metric is able to capture difficulties other than those related to debt and income and highlight the relevance of accounting for household portfolio decisions. Specifically, an illiquid portfolio increases the likelihood of financial fragility, while indebtedness not always does. Relevant differences among countries are observed in terms of both the estimated average likelihood of financial fragility and its main determinants. A decomposition exercise carried out by means of counterfactual methods shows that most of each country’s difference in financial fragility with respect to Germany arises predominantly from household characteristics rather than from its economic-institutional setup, even if in two countries the latter is found to more than compensate for the former.Contemporary research on older Latin American immigrants emphasises their health issues and mental problems. Most lived experience research has been done in North America and Europe, with relatively few studies in Australia, creating a gap that needs to be addressed. As part of a broad Constructivist Grounded Theory study, the aim of this study was to explore and derive insights from the lived migration experiences of older Latin American immigrants in Australia. Twenty-three Spanish-speaking immigrants aged 60 and above were interviewed. Data analysis was conducted concurrently with data collection using a constant comparative method. Ethical approval was obtained before commencing data collection. The study’s core category was “Preserving culture and values after migration”. This highlights the significance of cultural identity for older Latin American immigrants in Australia, as they prioritise promoting and preserving their traditions to foster a sense of solidarity, helping them enhance their mental health. Language experiences were vital in cultural conservation and integration into the host society. The migration experiences of older Latin American immigrants in Australia involve various aspects, including cultural preservation, identity maintenance, and integration challenges. Recognising and respecting their cultural background, values, traditions, and language within Australia’s multicultural society is crucial for enhancing the effectiveness of services and promoting their mental health and integration within the community.Mortality modeling is critical for healthcare policy and resource allocation. Multilayer parameterization and static features are not needed for deep learning (DL) models. To enhance prediction accuracy, DL models like LSTM, Bi-LSTM, and GRU have shown promise. However, research on using DL models to mortality modeling remains restricted. Hence, this paper presents a unique technique that blends DL models with a Hotelling\(T^2\)control chart. The DL models anticipate the number of fatalities, while the Hotelling\(T^2\)control chart examines the abnormalities. Furthermore, MTY decomposition is employed for diagnostic analysis of age groups in the population. Using the Great Britain mortality dataset, a comparison study is developed between the Hotelling\(T^2\)control chart based on traditional mortality and the DL models. The data demonstrated that the suggested strategy outperformed the current methods. Moreover, this study illustrates the methodology’s potential for identifying mortality variations owing to emerging diseases.This essay explores possible meanings hidden in the 1928 bronze statueSinnataggen—The Angry Boy—by the Norwegian sculptor Gustav Vigeland. The toddler, exuding anger and frustration, is a beloved statue. What is his attraction? Why is the boy angry, and what does he seek to communicate? The essay argues there is an Angry Boy in every boy and man, an emotion prohibited by contemporary American culture and especially for men of color. Anger, a response to one’s environment, is central to feeling alive and feeling real. Through a circumscribed conversation between Vigeland,The Angry Boy, and psychoanalyst D. W. Winnicott, the author argues thatThe Angry Boyrepresents core experiences of the complex male self. Contemporary boys and men have a conversation partner in Vigeland’s iconic statue.We investigate the effects that different levels of transparency may have on a simple nudge. Using an incentivized task and eliminating possible confounds due to strategic reasoning, we examine how different types of information (positive, negative, or a combination of the two) affect the impact of a nudge on behaviour in an experimental task. Our results indicate that providing reasons in favour of the nudge increases its efficacy, while warning subjects about its potential drawbacks does not significantly reduce it.This qualitative study explores the perceptions and experiences of college students, faculty, and administrators on mental well-being pre-and-post COVID-19 pandemic. The study used an exploratory sequential design, and this manuscript presented findings from the qualitative (phase one) data collected through in-depth interviews with students, faculty, and administrators (N= 20). Interviews were conducted in person and virtually, audio recorded, and transcribed verbatim. An inductive thematic analysis was undertaken using a comprehensive codebook and Nvivo14 software. The findings revealed three major categories of views and experiences based on the timeframes around COVID-19 and campus closure: (a) pre-pandemic, (b) during the pandemic, and (c) post-pandemic (after the reopening of campus). Views on pre-pandemic demonstrated that in-person learning is better for mental well-being, having a structure reduces stress, and the real college experience positively impacts mental well-being. The pandemic period was characterized as overwhelming and stressful, complex, and mixed spaces of work and life, dominated by feelings of isolation, lack of motivation, and anxiety. The post-pandemic period was filled with mixed feelings of excitement and the burden of readjustment. The re-opening of campus did not mean coming back to the pre-pandemic state; feelings of anxiety and trauma from the pandemic days continued. The period was marked by declined support that created a mental burden, but also important lessons were learned on how to maintain mental well-being. As colleges navigate the post-pandemic landscape, it is imperative to maintain a focus on mental wellness, integrating preventive measures, crisis response strategies, and continuous evaluation of mental health services.This special issue on “The Different Faces of Corruption and Organised Crime in Sport”, aims to shed light on the multifaceted nature of criminal activities that have infiltrated sport at all levels—from grassroots competitions to elite professional leagues. At the same time, specific attention is paid to the role of endogenous actors, threatening the integrity of and in sport from within the sport ecosystem. Hence, this special issue criticises and expands the dominant narrative that sport is a pristine industry that is merely jeopardised by external, ‘mafia type’ actors. Showing that the scope of organised crime in sport is diverse and complex, reflecting the evolving tactics of criminal organisations as they adapt to new regulatory landscapes, technological advances, and shifting market dynamics, this special issue pushes the envelope in grasping that sport and corruption are more intertwined than openly admitted in both academia and practice.This cautionary article urges general education preschool teachers to evaluate their responses to challenging student behavior. The manuscript delivers practical advice to improve teachers' responses to challenging behavior by refreshing their understanding of the various consequences that influence behavior recurrence. It highlights the need to avoid punitive measures that could harm teacher–child relationships and instead offer non-generic and function-specific consequences that support the child's needs and promote positive behavior development. By providing a review of the different types of consequences and real-life examples to illustrate their use, the article encourages teachers to consider the consequences they give, especially when a child's behavior changes in an unexpected direction.As globalization and neoliberalism drive increased international migration, the need for counseling and pastoral care for culturally diverse migrants is expanding. This study analyzes counseling experiences with a Korean Mongolian multicultural family using a case study methodology, exploring how intercultural interventions manifest in the counseling process. The findings reveal that intercultural approaches facilitate not only problem resolution but also mutual transformation. The researcher focused on exploring the client’s personal, social, and cultural needs through cultural assessment and pastoral theological reflection, emphasizing practical intercultural interventions. This study proposes a pastoral circle method for intercultural intervention, outlining four stages: reflection, revelation, response, and restoration. Future research should further examine the applicability and effectiveness of intercultural counseling with migrants from diverse cultural backgrounds.Existing literature suggests that public health insurance expansion improves multiple indirect indicators of financial well-being (e.g., credit score, bankruptcy, debt sent to third-party collection agencies, and payday borrowing) of the newly eligible individuals in the United States. However, there is a lack of understanding of the association between these expansions and how the newly eligible individuals directly evaluate different aspects of their financial well-being in the post-expansion years. To address the gap, I use data from the National Financial Capability Study (NFCS) 2009, 2012, 2015, 2018, and 2021 waves and employ difference-in-differences and event study designs utilizing temporal and spatial variations in the expansion of Medicaid—a major public health insurance program in the country—under the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. As outcome variables, I use three indicators of financial well-being directly evaluated by the respondents in multiple waves of the NFCS: perceived financial difficulty, perceived over-indebtedness, and financial satisfaction. The findings suggest a link between 2014 Medicaid expansions and a reduction in perceived financial difficulty and over-indebtedness in 2021—the second year of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, findings also suggest that these expansions were not associated with financial satisfaction among the newly eligible in any of the post-expansion years. Overall, these findings indicate that although public health insurance expansion improves some aspects of financial well-being, it does not appear to change how the newly eligible individuals make an overall evaluation of their finances.In October 2020, the Centers for Disease Control in the U.S. introduced “Title 42” as an effort to stop the spread of COVID-19 by halting almost all forms of immigration. This policy is a clear illustration of the link between immigration and perceived disease contagion, and the association is not new. There is, in fact, a longstanding literature on the relationship between “contagion threat” and attitudes towards immigration. How might these attitudes shift in light of the COVID-19 pandemic? This study uses a two-wave panel survey of immigration attitudes (Wave 1 in October 2019 before COVID-19 and Wave 2 in April 2020 during lockdowns in the US) and finds some important shifts in attitudes. We find no evidence that underlying support for immigration was changed by the pandemic. That said, Democrats worried about the threat of COVID-19 increasingly supported lower levels of immigration, and Republicans worried about the threat of COVID-19 were more likely to support financial relief for immigrants. The pandemic is thus a timely illustration of the connection between immigration and contagion threat.The aim of this article is to investigate the impact of Aberdeen Football Club’s proposed relocation from Pittodrie Stadium to the environs of Westhill, almost seven miles west of the city-centre, and to assess the probability of acceptance amongst stakeholders of the football club. At the present time, writing in November 2024, it appears that the club has abandoned this plan. Instead, there is talk of a new stadium on the seafront not far from Pittodrie. However, the issues and stakeholder relationships revealed through this case remain worthy of extensive study for what they reveal about the intersection between the corporate world, the community organizations, and the hardcore supporter bases; and how each works according to a different logic and rhythm as they vie for power and ascendency. During the fieldwork, conducted in 2018-20, the opinions of shoppers in both Aberdeen and Westhill were canvassed, alongside the views of supporters from one of the popular Aberdeen FC supporters’ clubs.All parents want to bring up their children in the best way possible, and they are naturally interested in exploring and borrowing good parenting practices from other families and cultures. With parents’ increased international exposure, intercultural referencing of parenting practices is on the rise. Reported in this study is an autoethnographic exploration of two Chinese Canadian parents in their efforts to understand and apply the best parenting practices from both Chinese and Canadian cultures. The study breaks the limitations of existing constructs of authoritarian parenting vs indulgent parenting to describe Eastern and Western parenting styles. It highlights the importance of balance and hybridity of parenting styles in order to get the best of both worlds. It also highlights the importance of examining deeper social, economic, and demographic factors in the larger national contexts to understand observable parenting behaviors.Mental disorders are a global health issue affecting millions of individuals. People with mental disorders often face barriers to treatment, including stigma and discrimination, social, religious, and familial barriers, and a lack of knowledge about available treatment options. These barriers can lead to delayed or untreated mental illnesses, with serious consequences for the individuals, their families, and communities. This cross-sectional study explores the treatment barriers for different mental disorders as they significantly impact people’s lives. It includes patients diagnosed with mental disorders. The data were collected from the patients or their companions attending Qassim Mental Health Hospital’s outpatient clinic. We used a self-administered online questionnaire, sociodemographic variables, and the barrier to access to care evaluation (BACE) scale. Our sample included 332 adult patients with mental disorders (men, 63.9%; women, 36.1%). The mean percentage scores for stigma-, attitude-, and instrument-related barriers were 26.7%, 33.0%, and 18.7%, respectively. Younger age was associated with higher scores in all three BACE domains. Patients with psychotic disorders faced stigma- and attitude-related barriers, but not instrument-related barriers. Patients with multiple mental conditions faced increased stigma- and instrument-related barriers but not attitude-related barriers. Further longitudinal studies are required to better understand these barriers to help patients with mental conditions.PurposeEvidence of comprehensibility is frequently required during the development of patient reported outcome measures (PROMs); the respondent’s interpretation of PROM items needs to align with intended meanings. Cognitive interviews are recommended for investigating PROM comprehensibility, yet guidance for analysis is lacking. Consequently, the quality and trustworthiness of cognitive interview data and analysis is threatened, as there is no clear procedure detailing how analysts can systematically, and consistently, identify evidence that respondent interpretations align/misalign with intended meanings.MethodsThis paper presents a novel, structured approach to comprehensibility analysis - the ‘Comprehensibility Continuum’ – that builds upon existing cognitive interview guidance.ResultsThe Comprehensibility Continuum comprises a structured rating scale to code depth of alignment between intended item meaning and respondent interpretation and consists of five main stages: before cognitive interviews are conducted, researchers must (1) Define intended meanings of PROM items; and (2) Determine comprehensibility thresholds for both participant- and item-level. After conducting interviews, they (3) Prepare data by transcribing interviews ‘intelligent’ verbatim; (4) Code transcripts using the Comprehensibility Continuum scale in iterative sets, assigning an overall code for each item at participant-level; and (5) Compare participant-level codes across all participants to determine overall item comprehensibility, such that decisions can be made to retain, modify, or remove items.ConclusionQuality in qualitative data analysis is achieved through rigorous methods that are clearly described and justified. Given insufficiency in guidelines, cognitive interviewers must reflect on how best to demonstrate PROM comprehensibility systematically and consistently from interview data, and the Comprehensibility Continuum method offers a potential solution.This research delves into the dynamics of 5–6-year-old children’s interactions within makerspaces, which are emerging as innovative environments in early childhood education. Despite their growing popularity, there is a notable absence of research evaluating the activities in these spaces for young learners. To address this gap, we conducted a comparative case study, observing three kindergarten classrooms. Qualitative data, gathered through observations, questionnaires, and interviews, provided insights into the children’s makerspace experiences and the social processes in which they engage. The findings yielded two major themes. Firstly, some children, often marginalized in other classroom settings, assumed leadership roles within makerspaces, highlighting their unique knowledge and potential for leadership development. Secondly, gender differences emerged, with boys engaging in mimetic activities influenced by male role models, and girls pursuing goal-oriented approaches. These differences reflect the interplay between gender roles, societal influences, and early childhood learning in makerspaces. We conclude that makerspaces serve as powerful environments in nurturing both resilience and creativity among young learners. This research provides educators with a deeper understanding of how to harness the potential of makerspaces for promoting leadership, achieving gender equity, and unraveling pivotal social interactions—all vital components of contemporary education.Race-related data are not routinely collected as part of the Canadian kindergarten teacher reported Early Development Instrument (EDI) data collection even though they could be used to inform provision of supports for students and educators. Therefore, the goal of our exploratory study was to gather an understanding of teacher perceptions regarding the assessment of items on the EDI in the context of children’s race, gender, and family status and teacher positionality. We conducted a series of four focus groups with educators (kindergarten teachers and designated early childhood educators) from a school board in Ontario, Canada. The major themes identified were: (1) intersections of social identity; (2) systemic biases and preconceived expectations; (3) educator reflections on feelings, attitudes, and circumstances; (4) teacher-child-family relationships; and (5) teacher training, education, and administrative resources. Our findings suggest that educators’ assessment may be influenced and informed by their perception of their own and their students’ identity. Potential of a bias might be reduced by adequate training and education.Little research explores how climate extremes affect early childhood mortality in sub-Saharan Africa, despite great vulnerability to both climate extremes and high rates of early childhood mortality. Although there have been substantial improvements in early childhood mortality in recent decades, climate change threatens to offset this progress. Focusing on the case of Côte d’Ivoire, I combine individual-level data from the Demographic and Health Surveys with high-resolution climate data to investigate how and when in-utero exposure to severe agricultural droughts influences early childhood mortality. I find that in-utero exposure to severe agricultural droughts increases the probability of under-five mortality, and most recent droughts seem to exert the greatest impact. I also find that boys and children born into families with little to no formal education are highly vulnerable to drought exposure during gestation. Maternal education mitigates the negative impact of droughts on under-five survival, regardless of urban or rural residence, suggesting that its protective effects may be linked to specific knowledge, behaviours, and practices that highly educated mothers employ rather than their living environment. These findings carry important lessons for policymakers, emphasising the need for policies that enhance educational opportunities for parents and develop targeted interventions for boys and children from families with little formal education.Evidence of gender differences in parental burnout has been replicated in several studies and in several cultures, showing a higher level of parental burnout in mothers but a greater sensitivity of fathers to this serious condition. However, the reasons for these differences have never been tested empirically. In this study, we tested whether mothers’ higher level of burnout is related to their greater investment in parenting activities. We also tested the greater sensitivity of fathers to a stress factor that is highly associated with parental burnout, emotion regulation. 1,322 Brazilian parents (41.3% fathers) participated in the study during the pandemic, which was regarded as a context in which parental stress naturally increased. The results confirmed mothers’ higher mean level of parental burnout. Contrary to our expectations, the results also revealed that mothers still experienced higher parental burnout than fathers even when we strictly controlled for the level of involvement in parenting. They also showed that compared to fathers, mothers were more susceptible to emotion dysregulation and to a stressful situation affecting parenting (i.e. the pandemic). Avenues for future studies are twofold. First, they should investigate alternative explanations for gender differences in parental burnout. Second, to the extent that gender moderates the impact of risk factors on parental burnout, future studies should identify specific risk factors for mothers on the one hand and for fathers on the other.With the enactment of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, undocumented crime victims could legalize their status in the United States by obtaining either a T or a U non-immigrant visa. In essence, both visas provide immigration relief from deportation to foreign-born victims along with other legal protections. Although every year a total of 5000 T-visas and 10,000 U-visas are made available to qualifying crime victims, very little is known about their attainability, especially in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Using data from the US Citizenship and Immigration Services, the goal of this paper is (1) to examine the number of T- and U-visa applications received, approved, and denied from 2008 to 2022; (2) to identify any potential barriers to the T- and U-visa process that might explain changes in issuance rates over time; and (3) to discuss implications for policy and practice as well as future research directions. Although both visas have seen a decline in application numbers at the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, USCIS data suggests that T- and U-visa applicants might be experiencing different visa processing issues. Implications for improving the visa application process include changes to the current eligibility requirements, improved victim identification efforts, and establishing a new framework for immigration policymaking.ObjectiveExisting research has shown that parental exposure to violence has negative consequences on health outcomes, but the effect of such exposure on unmet health care and social service need is unknown. This study aims to investigate the association between unmet health care and social services and parental violence exposure among parents with children.Study DesignThis study used the data of 6289 parents aged 18–60 years who had at least one child under 18 years living in the same household. Parental violence exposure was measured. Unmet child and adult health care and social service need was operationalized through questions on the services needed, those that had not been received, and those that were considered inadequate.ResultsParents who experienced any kind of violence had more unmet service need. There were more women among parents with violence experience (65.4%) than those with no violence experience (51.9%). Violence experience increased the odds of unmet need for general adult healthcare services (OR 2.02, CI 1.64–2.57), maternity and child health clinics (OR 2.52, CI 2.00–3.18), family guidance clinics and home help (OR 2.38, CI 1.60–3.54), mental health or child welfare services (OR 2.05, CI 1.52–2.75), and school health care (OR 1.99, 1.50–2.65). After adjusting for sociodemographic factors, the associations between exposure to violence experience and unmet needs for healthcare and social services remained statistically significant.ConclusionViolence in close relationships profoundly impacts health and well-being. By addressing unmet health care needs and supporting parents, we can break the cycle of violence and promote better mental health outcomes. Preventive policies and early interventions are essential to mitigate the consequences of violence in families.This article provides an overview of the development of chaplaincy and spiritual care in the Canadian province of Ontario in the last 50 years. Four spheres or areas in this development are described: (1) faith group pastoral/spiritual care, (2) armed forces chaplaincy, (3) spiritual care practitioners and psychospiritual therapists certified by the Canadian Association of Spiritual Care/Association canadienne de soins spirituels, and (4) specialized spiritual care. These four spheres overlap and influence each other. Some members in each sphere are registered psychotherapists in the College of Registered Psychotherapists in Ontario. These changes are interpreted through the evolutionary theology of Teilhard de Chardin.Early College High Schools (ECs) aim to increase postsecondary enrollment and degree attainment, specifically among historically minoritized populations. Research outlines the positive outcomes of ECs, yet less research examines the unintended consequences of these consolidated college preparation programs. Through interviews with 13 EC graduates, this qualitative study investigated the social and cultural sacrifices made in exchange for program participation. Using Cultural Reproduction Theory, this study examines the role ECs play in maintaining social hierarchies and perpetuating dominant cultural values. Findings reveal students’ reflections on the costs and long-term impacts of their EC experience. Implications for practice and future research are discussed.Against the background of increased labor market flexibilization, health issues amongst employees have become a pressing social concern in Korea. Yet, little is known about the diversity in employment experiences and the associated health implications amongst employees. To accurately gauge labor market segmentation, whilst simultaneously accounting for health-risk factors, we employ the multidimensional Employment Quality (EQ) concept in a typological manner. This method differentiates various employment segments, with the Standard Employment Relationship (SER) serving as a benchmark. Using the 2017 Korean Working Conditions Survey (KWCS), we employ Latent Class Cluster Analysis on a sample of the salaried workforce (N = 25.376) to construct a typology of EQ. Via logistic regression, we link the EQ typology to poor mental well-being and poor self-rated general health. As a result, we find six distinct types of EQ arrangements in Korea: SER-like, Instrumental, SER Intensive, Instrumental Intensive, Precarious Intensive, and Precarious Unsustainable. We find that deviations from the SER-like segment are associated with poorer health and well-being outcomes, even when accounting for confounding factors, with precarious EQ segments showing the most pronounced adverse health and well-being associations. This study furthers our understandings of health disparities within the salaried workforce. Our findings underscore the need for targeted reforms of workplace- and employment-related health policies to foster a healthier working population in Korea.The COVID-19 pandemic disproportionately affected African, Caribbean, and Black (ACB) people in Canada. Despite higher SARS-CoV-2 exposure risks, likelihood of being quarantined, and risk of severe disease outcomes, little is known about the pandemic’s effects on this community’s mental health. This study aims to identify factors associated with changes in ACB Canadians’ mental health during the pandemic and provide guidance for improved access to mental health resources. Data was collected from May to July 2021 using a cross-sectional, national, online survey. Eligible participants for this community-based study were ACB adults residing in Canada. Survey measures included demographics, pandemic-related experiences, mental health status, and access to mental health services. Bivariate analyses and multinomial logistic regression examined associations between variables. Among the 1,556 participants, 25.4% reported improved mental health and 33.1% reported worsened mental health since the pandemic’s onset. Improved mental health was associated with younger age, receiving at least one pandemic-related benefit, and living in a home that became safer. In contrast, worsened mental health was associated with younger age, working less, the pandemic having a major impact on ability to pay bills, not receiving pandemic-related benefits, home becoming less safe, and increased substance use. Barriers to accessing mental health services included difficulty getting an appointment, cost, pandemic measures, and lack of culturally competent care. These insights underscore the positive impact of pandemic-related emergency relief, the challenges in accessing mental health services, and the gaps in culturally competent mental health care.We advance understanding on the relationship between smallholder farmers’ practices and their knowledge on the environment through a case study of the water management of mangrove swamp rice (MSR) farming in Guinea-Bissau. In a theoretical framework of practice epistemologies and bridging ontologies we analyse how MSR farmers’ understanding of tides shapes their water management practices in relation to local and scientific knowledge. Our findings show that MSR farmers have a holistic understanding of the tides and other environmental factors affecting the tides such as wind. We argue that the farmers’ understanding of the environment as well as their practices are often tacit in nature. Moreover, their water management practices involve constant adaptation and sometimes improvisation, responding to socio-economic and environmental dynamics. Lastly, we argue that knowledge and practice are mutually embedded and that scientific and local knowledge can be bridged if we move away from the strict dichotomy and instead look into the multiple forms that knowledge may take.Researchers have extensively investigated parents’ psychological control over children. However, there is a lack of research examining parent psychological control during adulthood and its underlying mechanisms, particularly in the context of intergenerational co-parenting. The present study aimed to fill this gap by exploring the potential mediating roles of multidimensional intergenerational co-parenting relationships and insomnia severity in the association between grandparents’ psychological control and parents’ depressive symptoms. Data were collected from intergenerational co-parenting families in urban Tianjin and Shanghai, China (N= 674). Serial mediation models were used to allow for two mediators simultaneously. Path analyses were performed to investigate the mediation models of the total score and each sub-construct of intergenerational co-parenting relationships, respectively. The results showed that in the context of intergenerational co-parenting, grandparent psychological control was positively associated with parents’ depressive symptoms. Intergenerational co-parenting relationships and parents’ insomnia severity alone mediated the association between grandparents’ psychological control and parents’ depressive symptoms, respectively. Moreover, among the multiple dimensions of intergenerational co-parenting relationships, only the dimension of exposure of child to conflict via insomnia severity mediated such an association. Family service practitioners or therapists working with intergenerational co-parenting families should pay attention to parents with high levels of grandparent psychological control and focus on enhancing parent-grandparent co-parenting relationships, particularly reducing parent-grandparent conflict exposure to children. Additionally, addressing parents’ sleep problems might be a key component of interventions aimed at improving the psychological well-being of parents experiencing psychological control from co-parenting grandparents.Xenophobia among healthcare professionals can significantly impact the quality of care provided to immigrant and refugee populations, particularly in countries with high influxes such as Türkiye. This study evaluated xenophobia among resident physicians at Pamukkale University Hospital and identified factors influencing these attitudes. This cross-sectional study involving 271 resident physicians at Pamukkale University Hospital was conducted between August 1 and August 20, 2022. The participants were randomly selected and stratified by department. Data were collected via a 38-item questionnaire, including the 11-item Xenophobia Scale. Descriptive statistics, the Mann‒Whitney U test, the Kruskal‒Wallis test, and multiple linear regression analysis were used for data analysis. The mean xenophobia scale score among participants was 57.53 (SD = 7.82), indicating high levels of xenophobic attitudes. The significant factors associated with higher xenophobia scores included being from a surgical department (B = 0.571,p< 0.001) and lacking foreign nationals in their close environment (B = 0.724,p< 0.001). Additionally, 58.7% of the resident physicians opposed providing free healthcare services to refugees, and 10.0% indicated that they might delay providing health services to these patients because of their status. Additionally, 7.7% of the resident physicians admitted to discriminating against migrant/refugee patients. The study reveals pervasive xenophobic attitudes among resident physicians in Türkiye, which are influenced by departmental affiliation and the social environment. These findings underscore the need for targeted interventions to address xenophobia in healthcare settings, including cultural competence training and policy changes, to ensure equitable healthcare access for all patients.The purpose of this study was to examine which early childhood (EC) teachers’ qualifications (i.e., degree, major, and teaching experience) are linked to teachers’ Metacognitive Awareness (MA) and science teaching efficacy, and to investigate the relation among EC teachers’ MA components and science teaching efficacy. A total of 153 Head Start teachers from eight U.S. states completed validated surveys that measured their science teaching efficacy and MA. Results from multilevel ANOVA and regression analysis showed that teachers with an early childhood education background were more positive about their ability to teach science, more mindful of their teaching strategies, and more likely to self-evaluate their teaching as compared to teachers without an EC education background. Also, teachers who were more aware of their teaching strategies and instructional goals, and monitored their teaching practices reported higher confidence in their ability to teach science. Our results revealed the role of MA in early science teaching efficacy and highlighted the importance of supporting EC teachers’ professional development, particularly for those whose backgrounds are not in EC.Given that social and emotional learning (SEL) is critical for children’s current development and future success, effective teaching can enhance this process. This qualitative study investigatedwhichcompetencies were prioritized most frequently in social and emotional teaching (SET),why, andhow. Data collection included: (1) observations of three preschool teachers’ SET in their interactions with children over six days during typically occurring indoor and outdoor activities at a Reggio-inspired childcare center in the United States; and (2) individual interviews with these teachers. The research team coded 75 critical instances of SET for evidence of CASEL’s five social and emotional competencies (Self-Awareness,Self-Management,Social Awareness,Relationship Skills, andResponsible Decision-Making). Additionally, these instances were analyzed according to (Ng and Bull, International Journal of Early Childhood 50:335–352, 2018) four teaching strategies (setting a positive tone,suggestion of solutions,task allocation, andextension). The findings reveal that the teachers: (1) intentionally modeled and taughtRelationship Skillsmost frequently; (2) demonstrated the congruence between beliefs about SEL and practices of SET, especially in relationship skills as promoted in a Reggio-inspired context, and (3) applied an integrated approach to SET by setting a positive tone in all activities, with the most frequent instances occurring during circle time, followed by center/play time, and then mealtime.This paper investigates the relationship between refugee children’s social integration and foreign language difficulty. It also examines how different legal settlements and their accompanying education paradigms impact refugee students’ integration and language difficulties in Lebanon and Australia, where short- and long-term legal settlements are provided. The study is based on a longitudinal survey data collected between the academic years 2018 and 2021, with 1565 observations. Our findings reveal that refugees who felt more welcome in the host country were less likely to have high language difficulties. Conversely, refugees who faced high language difficulties were less likely to feel welcome in the host country. Despite the aforementioned, refugees in Lebanon felt less welcomed in their host country, even though they faced lower language difficulties. Therefore, our study reveals that the successful integration of refugee students in the host country requires comprehensive efforts at various levels. This comprehensive approach includes creating inclusive educational environments and equitable policies that promote a sense of belonging while also addressing language comprehension challenges among refugee students.The experience of joy and shared joyful moments benefits children’s learning, development and wellbeing. The arts engage the senses, imagination and creativity in meaning making and expression of ideas. Learning through the arts is often collaborative and embodied. This paper reports on a study which explored the use of arts-based practices in teaching writing with children mostly aged seven to nine years. Teachers intentionally adopted arts-based practices to reconnect with active, embodied and creative ways of exploring content and connect multiple ways of meaning making for children. This research affirmed that children benefitted from intentionally adopting arts-based practices to help facilitate student’s writing.This study documents changes in consumption inequality in Ghana from 2005 to 2017. The focus is on the causal link from consumption inequality to household multidimensional poverty. We use three rounds of the Ghana Living Standards Survey, augmented with district level administrative data. Consumption inequality is measured using the Gini coefficient at the district level while multidimensional poverty is measured using the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative's index. The control function approach is employed to estimate the effect of consumption inequality on multidimensional poverty. The findings show an upward trend in consumption inequality at the national level between 2005 and 2017, which is consistent with the inequality trends for the Savannah and Forest ecological zones but not with the trends for the Coastal zone. The main result of the regression analysis is that inequality increases multidimensional poverty, a finding that is robust to alternative measures of inequality and poverty. Further, the association between inequality and poverty is more pronounced in rural areas and amongst male headed households. Neighbourhood unrest is an important channel through which inequality operates to increase multidimensional poverty. We suggest policies that the government can use to reduce both poverty and inequality in Ghana.An improved global estimate of the amount of trafficking in human beings/modern slavery is produced. The paper develops the methodology for data to populate Indicator 16.2.2 in the UN SDGs, ‘the estimated number of victims of human trafficking per 100,000 population, by sex, age, and form of exploitation’. The improved estimate is constructed by integrating data from the International Labour Organization/Walk Free/International Organization for Migration (ILO/Walk Free/IOM) with administrative data from United Nations Organization on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) rather than from the Counter Trafficking Global Data Collaborative (CTDC). The data from the UNODC is more comprehensive and less volatile than that from the CTDC on registered victims of trafficking. The new estimate is more than 30% larger, increases the proportion of trafficking for purposes of sexual exploitation from 27 to 56%, and increases the proportion of victims of trafficking who are female from 54 to 64%. This has implications for the priorities for social and public policy for prevention and for the provision of services to mitigate harms.This study aims to investigate various forms of online engagement in relation to feelings of loneliness among older men and women during the COVID-19 pandemic. We explored which types of online engagement were associated with loneliness among older adults, with special attention to potential gender differences. We analyzed data from the 2020 Health and Retirement Study (HRS), including 4,421 respondents aged 50 or older (1,732 men and 2,689 women). Loneliness was measured using the 11-item UCLA Loneliness Scale. Ordinary Least Squares Regression models were estimated to assess the relationship between different types of online engagement and loneliness. More frequent use of all examined online engagement types, including instant messaging, social network sites, other social media, chat apps, and video chat, was associated with lower loneliness levels. Video chat had the strongest association with reduced loneliness, while social network sites had the weakest. Older men tended to report higher levels of loneliness compared to older women during the pandemic. Older women generally reported higher levels of online engagement than older men, although this pattern varied across different online platforms. No gender differences were found in the associations between online engagement and loneliness. This study highlights the potential positive role of online engagement in mitigating loneliness among older adults during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our findings emphasize the importance of developing policies that encourage and support internet access and online engagement initiatives for older adults to combat loneliness.PurposeSymptomatic uterine fibroids are difficult to live with because affected women experience many clinical manifestations that can impact their quality of life. The purpose of the current study was to explore the quality of life in women with uterine fibroids.MethodsThis qualitative study was conducted on a purposive sample of women with uterine fibroids, using conventional content analysis based on Granheim and Lundman’s approach. The steps included transcribing verbatim immediately after conducting each interview, reading the entire text to obtain an overall concept, identifying semantic units, coding, classifying similar codes into more comprehensive subcategories and categories, and extracting the main themes. Data were collected through semi-structured, in-depth individual interviews with 15 patients with uterine fibroids who were referred to the health centers and a teaching hospital of Zanjan, Iran, from September 2022 to July 2023. The data collection was continued until data saturation.ResultsTwenty-five eligible patients were invited to participate in the study, and 15 of them accepted, resulting in an agreement rate of 60%. While women expressed devastating experiences due to the disease, they also indicated some positive elements in their day-to-day living. Overall, four themes emerged from the data analysis as follows: health challenges, determination for an optimal lifestyle, perceived social support, and religious practice.ConclusionThe impact of uterine fibroids on quality of life is complex, extending beyond physical, psychological, and social effects. In addition to these known dimensions, spirituality and perceived support are also crucial. Addressing these dimensions is essential for improving quality of life of women with uterine fibroids.The prevalence of falls in older individuals worldwide is around 26.5%. There is an urgent need to identify factors antagonistic to advanced age-related falls regarding personal safety, family or nursing care time, and healthcare costs. The aim of the study was to examine the relationship between functional fitness, mental health indicators, and the risk of falling (ROF) in older adults. Thirty-eight older adults (60–94 years; 66% female) were tested individually with the Fullerton Functional Fitness Test (FFFT) after completing five instruments gauging resilience, well-being, satisfaction with life, happiness, and perceived stress. We measured the ROF with the Berg Balance Test. All objective and subjective measures correlated significantly with the ROF. Bayesian linear regressions revealed that complex movement coordination accounted for 68.8%, while resilience accounted for 48.5% of the variance in the ROF. Moreover, resilience was also a mediator between complex movement coordination and ROF. These results suggest that complex movement coordination-developing and resilience-enhancing training strategies might be beneficial in reducing the ROF in older adults.This qualitative case study explores the affordances of home-based multimodal literacy activities through the case of Mason’s (pseudonym) home writing experiences, a six-year-old bilingual kindergartener. Utilizing a play-based family literacy framework, the study examines 15 handmade mini-books created by Mason, revealing three key themes: (1) agency, creativity, and joy in Mason’s writing, (2) the cultivation of his bilingual and bicultural identities, and (3) the development of multimodal literacy through artistic representation. The study emphasizes the importance of recognizing writing as a playful and meaningful activity, advocating for an inclusive early childhood writing pedagogy that connects home and school literacy practices. By highlighting the interplay of children’s diverse interests, linguistic and cultural backgrounds, and personal experiences, the research underscores the transformative potential of literacy education to empower young learners from diverse backgrounds. This study provides insights into the role of home-based literacy activities in nurturing children's literacy development, positioning writing as an engaging and joyful practice.The experience sampling method (ESM) is increasingly used as a clinical tool in mental health care. Currently, ESM studies pay relatively little attention to assessing contextual factors, such as a person’s experience and perception of events, activities, and social interactions. This has been referred to as the ‘contextual black box’. However, personalized context information is essential for applications in clinical settings to gain insight in triggering and maintaining factors of psychopathology. Typically, ESM context items are designed for nomothetic research questions, to capture broad factors that are shared across individuals, such as ‘unpleasant events’. We provide an overview of such nomothetic items. We argue that these items have limited clinical utility and describe idiographic alternatives to ESM context assessment to obtain more specific and personalized information about individual clients. Specifically, we present three existing idiographic ESM techniques to context assessment with clinical potential. First, we illustrate open-ended ESM items that prompt clients to fill in text, such as a description of a specific unpleasant event they experienced. Second, we describe personalized response options and self-learning items that ask clients to define personally relevant response categories, such as types of events the client finds unpleasant. Third, we describe personalized ESM items that client and clinician select or formulate together for concepts of interest. We discuss the advantages and disadvantages of these idiographic techniques. Additionally, we suggest future directions for clinical research aiming to address the ‘contextual black box’ and enhance the potential of ESM in mental health care.This study examined the longitudinal relationship between work–family conflict (WFC) and family–work conflict (FWC), with a focus on the moderating role of job demands and home demands, and the mediating role of family distress within dyads (i.e., actor [the employee] and partner). Using data from a survey of 281 married partners (N = 562) from Central Java, Indonesia, in two waves, four months apart, this study’s results revealed that WFC has a spillover effect on FWC in the cross-sectional path, but not longitudinally. Furthermore, family distress actor was found to mediate the relationship between WFC and FWC in the cross-sectional spillover path, whereas family distress partner did not, indicating that family distress underscores the detrimental impact of WFC on family functioning. Additionally, only cognitive job demands were found to moderate the relationships between WFC and family distress actor, WFC and family distress partner, and family distress actor and FWC over time.During the COVID-19 pandemic, China implemented the “zero COVID-19” policy (enforcing mass testing, quarantine, lockdowns, etc.) for about three years to minimize infections. However, the longitudinal evidence on the mental health impact of COVID-19 containment policies in the Chinese context is limited. Drawing on six waves of national panel data covering the period of early 2020–late 2022, this study uses fixed-effects models to examine the relationship between the stringency of COVID-19 containment policies and individuals’ depressive symptoms, and the extent to which this impact was mediated by psychosocial, economic, and health factors. The results show that individuals’ depressive symptoms increased as COVID-19 containment policies became more stringent, and this held even after the COVID-19 incidence rate and other time-varying controls were accounted for. Individuals’ locus of control, unemployment, and their or their household members’ COVID-19 infection mediated more than half of the relationship between COVID-19 containment policies and depressive symptoms. Locus of control was the most prominent mediator, followed by unemployment, while COVID-19 infection played a marginal mediating role.Previous research has highlighted the positive impact of parents on their adult children's fertility plans through childcare, but the association between parental health and fertility expectations remains unclear. Thus, this paper offers a novel perspective on the issue of family support by investigating how caregiving responsibilities toward elderly parents affect adult children’s decision to have a child. Using a long panel dataset for Australia, we examine whether adult children changed their fertility expectations after becoming care providers to their parents. To address issues of unobserved heterogeneity and selection into parenthood and caregiving, we employ generalized difference-in-differences models. Results show a 7% decrease in fertility expectations within two years of becoming a parental caregiver, with a stronger effect over time, consistent across genders and more pronounced for respondents with one child. These findings suggest that interventions aimed at reducing the caregiver burden could provide an opportunity to positively influence fertility levels.BackgroundThis study aimed to evaluate the construct validity and reliability of the newly adapted German version of the Parental Bonding Questionnaire (PBQ) in a group of mothers drawn from the general population, with children aged 12–24 weeks. This assessment followed a thorough linguistic validation, which was conducted through a systematic, multi-step translation process.Methods363 women completed the PBQ online 12–24 weeks after delivery. Cronbach’s alpha and exploratory factor analysis (EFA) were used to assess internal consistency reliability and construct validity.ResultsThe original 4-factor model could not be confirmed. The new PBQ provides a single factor solution. Ten items were removed from the original 25-item PBQ to produce the abbreviated German PBQ-15, which showed strong internal consistency. The Cronbach’s alpha for this version was 0.86.ConclusionWhile further research is needed to establish diagnostic thresholds and strengthen the construct validity of the shortened version, the German-language 15-item version of the PBQ holds promise as an accessible tool for recognizing bonding issues in a general population of German-speaking women 3–6 months postpartum.A growing body of research shows that demographic attitudes and behaviors across the life course are socially stratified. Building on this and focusing on the transition to parenthood, we hypothesize that (i) parental socioeconomic status is associated with multiple dimensions of the transition to parenthood, including fertility norms (perceived lower age limit at first birth), ideals (ideal age at first birth), and behaviors (age at first birth), and that (ii) this association varies across national contexts, as national contexts determine the opportunities and constraints that guide young adults’ life course attitudes and behaviors. Drawing on the European Social Survey 2006 and 2018 data, we analyze early fertility norms and ideals and later fertility behaviors of a pseudo-panel of individuals born between 1976 and 1988. We show that (i) parental socioeconomic status is positively associated with later fertility norms, later fertility ideals, and later childbearing, even when controlling for respondents’ own socioeconomic status, and that (ii) national contexts partially moderate these associations. We conclude by discussing implications for theories of fertility and highlighting avenues for future research.IntroductionThis paper reviews the scientific basis and reports initial implementation results of California’s Black Infant Health Program, a statewide group-based program with complementary one-on-one life planning to improve maternal and infant health among Black mothers and birthing persons.MethodsDescriptive analyses were conducted at the participant and group session level using program evaluation data from the initial three years of program implementation to examine participation rates, rates of service delivery, and participants perceptions of the program.ResultsFrom 2015 to 2018, 3332 Black birthing persons received group and/or life planning and 386 10-session prenatal group series were initiated with an average of 5.9 participants per series. Most sessions delivered all required activities (86.1%) and met requirements for providing food (84.5%), transportation support (72.2%), and childcare (55.4%). More than 90% of responding participants agreed or strongly agreed that BIH helped them manage stress (94.5%), set (97.4%) and achieve (92.9%) goals, and build stronger social connections (94.5%).Conclusions for PracticeThe program was developed in response to evolving scientific knowledge regarding racism as the root cause of health disparities for Black birthing people. Focusing on six interwoven strategies for improving maternal and infant health outcomes, the program is supported by current scientific knowledge and can be feasibly implemented at a level consistent with similar evidence-based models.BackgroundHealth utility is a key input used to perform cost-utility analysis (CUA), which is increasingly used to inform resource allocation decisions.ObjectiveTo identify the sources and elicitation methods of health utilities used in CUAs in oncology.MethodsWe used the Tufts Cost-Effectiveness Analysis registry to identify oncology CUAs published in Medline between 1976 and 2021. Eligible CUAs had to include an oncology population (based on ICD-10 codes), report health utilities, and be published in English. The references of cited health utilities were traced to identify the original health utility study and the method of utility elicitation. Characteristic of included CUAs were summarized and the methods to derive health utilities were compared.ResultsA total of 1512 CUAs in oncology were identified. The majority of CUAs (n = 1428, 94.4%) were model-based. Malignant neoplasm of breast and female genital organs was the most common population considered (n = 424, 28.0%). Among these CUAs, 8714 health utilities were identified. Upon review, the sources of 2096 (24.1%) health utilities could not be traced. Of the remaining 6618 health utilities, 1718 (26.0%) were obtained from original health utility study embedded in CUA in which expert opinion (n = 547, 31.8%) or EQ-5D (n = 479, 27.9%) was most frequently used. The 4900 health utilities (74.0%) that were cited from external studies were most often derived using the standard gamble (n = 1258, 25.7%) or EQ-5D (n = 1190, 24.3%).ConclusionPublished health utilities are widely used in oncology CUAs, especially for model-based analyses. However, the identification, selection, and use of health utilities is suboptimal.PurposeThe SF-6D Classification System was recently updated (SF-6Dv2). We performed a valuation survey to construct a value set for the SF-6Dv2 in Japan.MethodsAn online discrete choice experiment (DCE) with duration was used to estimate a value set for the SF-6Dv2 for Japan based on public preferences. The target sample number was 3800. Respondents were asked to complete 15 choice tasks. A conditional logit model that estimates interactions between time and each dimension was used to develop the value set.ResultsThe collected sample included 3933 respondents for the DCE tasks. The results of all the unconstrained models showed some inconsistencies. In particular, inconsistencies in the two most severe levels of the role limitation (RL) and vitality (VT) dimensions were observed in all models. The number of inconsistencies was smallest in a core model (n = 3) and in a model for core and common health states (n = 2). The physical functioning (PF) and pain (PA) dimensions had the greatest influence on utility at the overall level across all models. RL, VT, and social functioning (SF) had smaller overall impacts on utility. The PF weights for the two most severe levels are much lower than those in the UK and Australia. The Japanese scores tended to be lower compared with the UK SF-6Dv2 scores.ConclusionWe obtained a value set for Japan (model 5). With the development of this value set, it is now possible to calculate quality-adjusted life years for economic evaluation in Japan when the SF-6Dv2 has been used.Researches indicate that children with dyslexia are more likely to experience psychiatric symptoms throughout life compared to peers in the general population. Improving the classification of psychiatric symptoms in this population can be a valuable goal for strengthing therapeutic models. The current study aimed to evaluate the dynamic associations between internalizing and externalizing symptoms in children with dyslexia using network analysis. This cross-sectional study was conducted in Saudi Arabia from April to July 2024, involving 183 children aged 8–11 diagnosed with dyslexia, recruited through convenience sampling from local schools and clinics. The Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) was utilized to assess a range of psychopathological symptoms, focusing on six clusters: affective problems, anxiety problems, somatic symptoms, ADHD symptoms, oppositional defiant problems, and conduct problems. Notably, "cries a lot" emerged as a central symptom in the affective network, while "dependent" was identified as the most pivotal symptom in the anxiety network. Centrality measures—betweenness, closeness, and strength—were employed to quantify the significance of each symptom. The findings suggest that these central symptoms may contribute to the development and persistence of psychiatric comorbidities in children with dyslexia. Interventions targeting these core symptoms could enhance psychological outcomes for this population. Overall, this study lays the groundwork for future research into tailored intervention strategies to address unique psychiatric comorbidities associated with dyslexia.Containment, as a way of restricting mobilities, ranges from physical infrastructures to diffused control practices in everyday life. Alongside their physical, social, and political dimensions, such restrictions also engender various temporal borders and experiences of time particular to situations of containment. A prolific field of research has identified waiting and hope as strategies for both enforcing and surpassing containment. In response, anthropological research on future-making has highlighted a more diverse set of contextual and emergent practices that derive from imagining and realising migrants’ futures. Yet, in contrast to waiting, migrants’ future-making practices have seldom been related to containment. Besides containment informing future-making, migrants and control actors also manipulate time as they plan or experiment with futures to overcome or reinforce containment. Carrying elusive promises of a better future, containment infrastructures can also motivate migrants to stay put and accommodate restrictions to their mobility. This paper addresses how such different relational, often conflicting, practices of envisioning and realising migrant futures contribute to or subvert different types of containment. Building on empirical studies from Turkey, Niger and Kenya we suggest future-making as a relational, practice-oriented and contextual approach suited to trace the negotiation of migrant futures between migrants, control actors, and infrastructures in situations of spatiotemporal containment. We give special attention to resettlement as a form of containment due to its ability to limit mobility through promises of future mobility and its role in negotiating migrant futures. This article serves as a theoretical introduction into the emerging research field of contested future-making in containment and to the corresponding paper cluster.The relationship between subjective well-being and fear of crime is well-evidenced, but the cost of crime victimization is relatively understudied. We estimate the monetary compensation needed to offset the change from non-victim to victim of burglary or assault, using the compensating income variation method on seven waves of data from the South African Social Attitude Survey conducted in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018. We explore the sensitivity of results to different model specifications and utility proxies, including the first-ever utilization of the personal well-being index in compensating income variation research. Results show that models using the personal well-being index have higher predictability, but they produce considerably higher willingness-to-pay or compensating income variation estimates than those using the general life satisfaction questions and the global happiness question. We find the willingness to pay to avoid suffering the consequences of burglary or assault to range between USD 1581 and USD 4242 per year for the average-income person. However, there is large heterogeneity in willingness-to-pay across income groups. The measured value of not suffering burglary or assault along with the high prevalence of victimization in South Africa highlights the substantial financial and societal impacts of crime and the urgent need for targeted policy interventions, particularly in contexts marked by significant income disparities.Gratitude, a universally cherished positive quality, is intricately linked with individual well-being. Although existing research underscores the role of gratitude as a significant predictor of well-being, enhanced well-being may also contribute to higher levels of gratitude. However, few studies have directly explored the reciprocal dynamics between these constructs. To address this gap, this study employed a longitudinal design with a large sample of 2539 Chinese adolescents (Mage= 17.27,SD= 0.86), and aimed to elucidate the bidirectional interplay between gratitude and both subjective and psychological well-being. Correlation analysis showed that gratitude was significantly and positively related to both types of well-being. Results from cross-lagged analysis revealed that the two components of subjective well-being showed differences in relation to gratitude. Specifically, gratitude predicted cognitive well-being but the reverse is not true. However, a mutual predictive relationship is observed between gratitude and affective well-being, and between gratitude and psychological well-being. Overall, our findings facilitate contribute to a deeper comprehension of the intricate relationship between gratitude and well-being and imply that nurturing adolescents’ well-being could potentially foster the development of their gratitude disposition.The relationship between subjective well-being and fear of crime is well-evidenced, but the cost of crime victimization is relatively understudied. We estimate the monetary compensation needed to offset the change from non-victim to victim of burglary or assault, using the compensating income variation method on seven waves of data from the South African Social Attitude Survey conducted in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018. We explore the sensitivity of results to different model specifications and utility proxies, including the first-ever utilization of the personal well-being index in compensating income variation research. Results show that models using the personal well-being index have higher predictability, but they produce considerably higher willingness-to-pay or compensating income variation estimates than those using the general life satisfaction questions and the global happiness question. We find the willingness to pay to avoid suffering the consequences of burglary or assault to range between USD 1581 and USD 4242 per year for the average-income person. However, there is large heterogeneity in willingness-to-pay across income groups. The measured value of not suffering burglary or assault along with the high prevalence of victimization in South Africa highlights the substantial financial and societal impacts of crime and the urgent need for targeted policy interventions, particularly in contexts marked by significant income disparities.Research on the children of immigrants born in the host country (G2) consistently reveals disparities between their educational achievements and labour market outcomes compared to the majority population. This study provides new insights into understanding this disparity by examining patterns of overqualification—i.e., a downward educational mismatch—among the G2. Specifically, it explores 1) how overqualification patterns differ between the G2, foreign-born immigrants (G1), and the majority population and 2) how overqualification patterns vary across ten G2 ancestry groups compared to the majority population. Utilizing Swedish total population register data and linear probability models, this study estimates the probability of overqualification across different immigrant generations and ancestry groups, employing the Realised Matches method to measure overqualification. The results indicate that while G2 individuals have a lower probability of experiencing overqualification compared to G1, they face moderately higher probabilities of overqualification than the majority population—up to 19% higher. This disparity is particularly pronounced among G2 individuals with tertiary education and those of Iranian, Middle Eastern and North African, and Other Non-Western origins, with up to 39% higher probabilities. These findings suggest that G2 individuals, particularly those of non-Western origins, encounter significant challenges in translating their educational qualifications into commensurate employment within the Swedish labour market.ObjectivesThe Gambling Quality of Life Scale -brief (GQoLS-Brief) assesses the impact of gambling disorder (GD) on quality of life (QoL). Preference-based measures are essential for obtaining the quality adjustment weight (i.e. utility score) needed to calculate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in economic evaluations. We aimed to derive a value set for the GQoLS-Brief.MethodsWe employed a discrete choice experiment for preference elicitation. An online survey was administered (n = 928). Respondents completed 10 choice tasks, each presenting two GQoLS-Brief health states alongside life expectancy. Conditional logit regression, parameterized to fit the QALY framework, was used for data analysis. QALY weights for each health state defined by the GQoLS-Brief were calculated.ResultsThe estimated coefficients from the conditional logit models aligned with expectations: utility increased with survival time and decreased with QoL impairment. Utility values for health states ranged from − 1.48 (worse than death) to 1.0. "Financial difficulties" exhibited the highest utility decrement, followed by "Sleep disturbance related to financial difficulties."ConclusionsThis reference set facilitates the calculation of QALYs for economic evaluations of GD interventions. The weight of subjective financial difficulties underscores the need for therapeutic interventions to target this aspect.Introduction:Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition often accompanied by cognitive impairments, such as difficulties with sustained attention, and emotional disturbances, particularly depression and anxiety. Understanding how these emotional and cognitive factors interact is crucial to improving treatment for fibromyalgia patients. This study aimed to investigate the network structure of these interactions, focusing on the relationship between depression, anxiety, and cognitive performance.Method:A total of one hundred ten participants diagnosed with fibromyalgia completed self-reported assessments of depression and anxiety, alongside cognitive performance tests. Key measures included Continuous Performance Tasks (CPT) for impulsivity and sustained attention, the Stroop Interference Index (StI), Stroop Color Naming (StC), and Stroop Word Reading (StW). Network analysis was conducted to estimate the relationships between emotional and cognitive variables and assess their centrality within the network.Results:Errors in CPT emerged as the most significant indicators of the relationship between depression and cognitive performance, with high centrality values observed for the Stroop tasks (StI, StC, and StW). Additionally, Trait Anxiety (A_T) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) measures showed high centrality, underscoring the critical role of emotional states in the network of cognitive and emotional variables. The centrality values for cognitive flexibility, processing speed, and inhibitory control were found to be 0.85, 0.78, and 0.72, respectively.Conclusion:This study highlights the strong association between depression symptoms and deficits in cognitive domains, emphasizing the need for integrated care approaches that address both cognitive and emotional health. Multidisciplinary treatment programs, including cognitive rehabilitation and psychological support, could improve patient outcomes by targeting the most influential variables in the cognitive-emotional network.Reflecting a recent guideline for operationalizing subjective wellbeing (OECD,2023), this study tested a model that shows how work-life conflict, one of the key dimensions that detracts from wellbeing outcomes. It does so through a mediating mechanism involving domain satisfaction (i.e., family and work wellbeing), subjective wellbeing, and eudaimonic wellbeing. Specifically, we theorize that work-life conflict detracts from both family and work wellbeing, which in turn decreases subjective wellbeing. In turn, decreases in subjective wellbeing serve to decrease eudaimonic wellbeing. We also argue that work-life conflict has direct adverse effects on both subjective wellbeing and eudaimonic wellbeing. Data collected from the 2016 European Quality of Life Survey were used to test the model; the sample included 18,137 respondents from 33 European countries. The results from multi-level modeling were supportive of our hypotheses. Policy implications were discussed, along with study limitations and suggestions for future research.PurposeThe Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form version 4.0 (MFSAF v4.0) comprises 7 common MF symptom items (fatigue, night sweats, pruritus, abdominal discomfort, pain under the left ribs, early satiety, bone pain) and is the first patient-reported outcome (PRO) instrument designed to assess MF symptom burden. Given that information on the psychometric properties of this instrument has been limited, we sought to evaluate its measurement properties and validate its use in the phase 3 MOMENTUM trial.MethodsData were pooled to assess MFSAF item distribution, structural validity, reliability (test-retest and internal consistency), construct validity (convergent, divergent, and known-groups), and sensitivity to change. Other PRO measures included Patient Global Impression of Severity/Change (PGIS/PGIC), EORTC QLQ-C30, PROMIS Physical Function Short Form 10b, and ECOG performance status.ResultsParticipants (N= 195) showed high completion rates (> 93%) across 24 weeks. Moderate to strong Spearman correlation coefficients among items were mostly observed at baseline (range, 0.289–0.772) and week 24 (range, 0.391–0.829), which supported combining items into a multi-item scale and total score. Internal consistency (Cronbach’s α, 0.877 at baseline and 0.903 at week 24) and test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient, > 0.829) were satisfactory across selected time intervals. Reliability was also supported by McDonald’s omega (ω) coefficient (> 0.875). MFSAF moderately correlated with PRO measures of similar content, differentiated between PGIS and ECOG groups (P< .001), and was able to detect change over time.ConclusionsThe MFSAF v4.0 is a valid tool to assess MF symptom burden, supporting its use in future trials in similar populations.From the perspective of safe asset theory, our paper studies the impact of the safety preference of Chinese household sector on real estate asset allocation. Based on China Household Finance Survey data, our paper shows a significant positive relationship between safety preference in the household sector and the proportion of household assets allocated to real estate. We also show that the impact of households’ safety preference on the proportion of household real estate allocation is weakened by household investment in risky financial assets and household entrepreneurial activities. A heterogeneity analysis shows that real estate assets can better meet the safety needs of households in first-tier cities, in cities with a high unemployment rate, and in cities with a low degree of climate policy uncertainty. Our findings suggests that Chinese household assets include a high proportion of real estate due to their psychological preference for safety. Our study enriches our understanding of the Chinese real estate market and the safe asset theory.ObjectiveThis systematic review and bibliometric analysis investigated the keywords appearing most in the pregnancy-related eye disease field to elucidate the current state and trends of pregnancy-related eye disease research.MethodsA systematic literature analysis of pregnancy-related eye disease was performed using the Web of Science Core Collection (WOS) databases. We used the keywords “ocular” OR “eye*” and “pregnancy” OR “pregnant” OR “gestation” to search for articles published from 1999 to 2022. Study data were analyzed and visualized using VOSviewer and CiteSpace.ResultsWe analyzed 929 articles published from 1999 to 2022. From 1999 to 2012, the article number increased slowly, with a marked acceleration in publication frequency after 2013, original papers accounted for 780 (84%) of the total number of articles published. David A. Mackey was the most prolific writer, and Margaret A. Honein contributed the most citations. TheAmerican Journal of Ophthalmology,PLOS One, and theEuropean Journal of Ophthalmologypublished the most articles. TheAmerican Journal of Ophthalmology,Ophthalmology,British Journal of Ophthalmology,Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Sciencewere the four most commonly cited journals. The University of Western Australia, the University of Sao Paulo, and the University of Melbourne were highly prolific institutions. Five co-cited references had a citation burst up to 2022, analyzed by CiteSpace. Keyword analysis (VOSviewer) yielded recent key themes (pregnancy, women, eye, risks and diagnosis) and suggested future research directions.ConclusionsThe current results laid the foundation of bibliometrics for scholars and identified researchers, scientific journals, countries, keyword clustering, hot topics, and trends in the literature. High-impact-factor journals contain the most keyword-clustering research and open new horizons for research in the pregnancy-related eye disease nursing field, providing research inspiration for investigators in this field.This study employs Bayesian inference to explore class-based differences in moral judgment. Based on the dual-process perspective in interdisciplinary action theory, we estimate in a first step a process model which differentiates parametrically between emotionally driven deontological, deliberatively driven utilitarian, and residual judgmental inclinations. In a second step, our estimates of these parameters are correlated via beta regressions with indicators of social class and thinking dispositions. We find a considerable association between social class, specifically income, and deontological inclinations, whereas consequentialist inclinations correlate with thinking dispositions but not with social class. This research underscores the utility of Bayesian estimation in closing the gap between theoretical and statistical modelling. Employing this approach enhances our understanding of the nuanced interplay between intuitive and deliberative processes in moral judgment and, more generally, offers a promising direction for advancing sociological action theory.Climate change impacts are gendered. This is also true for climate-induced migration, which affects men and women differently. On account of this difference, legal instruments and policies seeking to address and support climate-induced migration need to be gender-focused to address differentiated needs and outcomes. This paper looks at existing policies and legal instruments for the inclusion of gender aspects of climate-related migration. We focus on Ethiopia, India, and Peru, all of them with developed instruments to address the human mobility-climate change nexus. We investigate the scope of provisions concerning gender in relevant instruments in the three country contexts, their likely impact to tackle gender-specific vulnerabilities arising with climate-induced migration and suggest strategies and priorities for enhancing gender-inclusion in policy development and application broadly.This study conducted a two-stage data envelopment analysis (DEA) to assess governments’ efficiency in promoting the social conflict management necessary to develop and maintain a state, the human rights of its citizens, and the common prosperity of humanity. We conducted a two-stage DEA, given the multifaceted nature of conflict and conflict resolution. This method facilitates the analysis of the relationship between government policies and social conflicts by separating the exploration of inputs and outputs into two stages. The efficiency values derived from each stage of the DEA were used in the cluster analysis, and the characteristics of efficiency scores across countries were used to exhaustively measure the conflict management capabilities of these nations. The DEA findings indicated that the average social stability efficiency, average social equity efficiency, and average overall social conflict management efficiency of the 53 Country Policy and Institutional Assessments countries examined were 0.8671, 0.9152, and 0.8036, respectively. On these bases, the core policy contribution of this research is the provision of a methodology for segmenting developing countries worldwide and targeting strategies for the future direction of the conflict management policies enacted by international organizations and governments.Based on theoretical premises of ecological systems theory and the compensatory hypothesis, a subset of data from the Family Life Project (N= 773), a population-based study of rural families with low incomes, were used to test for associations between maternal literacy in infancy and children’s academic outcomes and teacher-reported problem behaviors in kindergarten. A second aim tested whether increased time in child care averaged from 6 to 36 months moderated such relations. Results indicated that maternal literacy was significantly positively related to academic outcomes (ES= 0.17–0.23) and significantly negatively related to children’s problem behaviors (ES= −0.15) in kindergarten. Child care hours were not significantly related to any outcome. Significant interactions were found between maternal literacy and hours in child care on both children’s academic skills and problem behaviors. Specifically, for mothers with lower literacy levels, significant dose-response relationships were detected between increased time in child care and children’s higher academic scores and reduced problem behaviors (ES= 0.07–0.09). Implications for maternal literacy and child care access among rural families are discussed.Energy poverty has become a significant global challenge, especially in China, the largest developing country, where the problem of energy poverty is more complex and diverse than that of developed countries. In this study, a Multidimensional Energy Poverty Index (MEPI) was constructed from three dimensions: energy-use level, structure, and capacity. Social welfare is quantified using the regional Development and Living Index (DLI) and the spatial effect of MEPI on social welfare is explored using a spatial Durbin model. The findings indicate that energy poverty has a detrimental impact on local and surrounding areas’ social welfare. The energy-use level poverty has the most pronounced negative spillover effect, followed by the energy-use structure poverty, while the energy-use capacity poverty has the weakest impact. Strategies such as high-efficiency energy structure and formal environmental regulation, can mitigate local welfare challenges. Moreover, low-carbon energy structure can mitigate surrounding areas’ welfare challenges. Additionally, the welfare effects of informal regulation and technological innovation have yet to be fully realized. Based on these conclusions, we provide recommendations to policy-makers on how to alleviate energy poverty and promote sustainable development. These include increasing funding for renewable energy projects in the central and western regions, promoting energy efficiency and consumption management in urban and industrial areas, enforcing environmental protection laws, fostering green technology innovation, and enhancing cooperation among regions.To fully understand and forecast local and regional population change, it is necessary to obtain data for all the demographic components of change—births, deaths, internal migration, and overseas migration. In Australia, and many other countries, high-quality and geographically detailed data is available for most demographic components, but not emigration. The Australian Bureau of Statistics publishes good quality estimates of immigration and emigration at the national and State scales, but available sub-state emigration data is heavily modelled and suffers from quality issues. Good quality sub-state immigration data is available from the census. The aim of this study was to evaluate the quality of sub-state emigration data for Australia extracted from a large administrative population dataset, the Person Level Integrated Data Asset (PLIDA), which links several administrative datasets. We compared State and sub-state emigration flows from PLIDA to available emigration data, as well as sub-state immigration flows from PLIDA to census-derived immigration flows. We found PLIDA-based emigration flows to be considerably lower in volume than official State emigration estimates, likely due to undercoverage in PLIDA of temporary migrants and residents of remote regions. We discovered sizeable geographical, temporal, age, and visa/citizenship variations in emigration coverage relative to available emigration statistics. Our view is that PLIDA does not yet allow sub-state emigration estimates of sufficient quality for most uses. But we are hopeful that improvements to the population coverage of PLIDA will allow this in the future.PurposePatient reported outcome measures (PROMs) are well-suited for the longitudinal assessment of quality of life, including depression and physical limitations associated with peripheral artery disease (PAD) that are not routinely assessed in clinical care. This study was designed to gain the patient perspective to facilitate implementation of PROMs into clinical practice for PAD management.MethodsTwenty-three patients with PAD at a single vascular surgery clinic were enrolled for a qualitative interview, July–December 2022. Patients completed PROMIS Physical Function and Depression assessments before undergoing semi-structured interviews. Two researchers used an inductive thematic analysis to analyze emergent themes from transcribed interviews.ResultsThe average age of participants was 69.5 ± 8.2 years; 91% were Caucasian, and 39% were female. Qualitative interviews revealed three implementation-related themes: (1) patient preferences on the timing and type of PROMs collected, (2) PROMs applications in outpatient PAD care, including discussions with their physician, and (3) the clinical value of PROMs. Overall, patients with PAD prefer PROMs related to quality of life and physical function over other domains. Patients appreciate the convenience to complete PROMs before their appointment. Patients would like to verbally discuss meaningful score changes with their providers without the use of graphical aids. Most patients believe PROMs are valuable in their clinical care if their physician reviews the results and the PROM questions apply to their disease symptoms.ConclusionsPatient preferences inform future successful implementations and will improve patient completion rates for the collection and clinical use of PROMs in PAD clinical care.PurposeMyalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is associated with anxiety and depressive symptoms. Psychological symptoms are predisposing factors for, as well as symptoms of, ME/CFS. Recovery from ME/CFS is poorly understood and heterogenous, and it is unclear how psychological symptoms may change with recovery. The aim of this study was to examine the associations of depressive and anxious symptoms among individuals with current, previous, and no history of ME/CFS.MethodsNational Health Interview Survey 2022 data were analyzed to assess ME/CFS status, as well as anxiety and depression burden. Adults (unweightedN= 27,651) in the United States reported sociodemographic and health behavior characteristics, with 453 adults reporting current ME/CFS, while 119 reported previous ME/CFS. Sample weights and variance estimation variables were implemented. Multivariable linear regression models were used to analyze the associations between ME/CFS status and anxiety and depression severity after adjusting for sociodemographic and health behavior variables.ResultsParticipants were on average 48.1 years of age, and most identified as female (51.3%), white (76.6%), and not Hispanic or Latine (82.8%). Current and previous ME/CFS were associated with anxiety and depressive symptoms compared to individuals with no history of ME/CFS. Clinically significant levels of anxiety and depressive symptoms were substantial for individuals with current (37.6%; 49.0%) and previous (26.5%; 33.4%) ME/CFS compared to individuals with no history of ME/CFS (6.1%; 6.7%).ConclusionME/CFS, regardless of current presence, was related to significantly greater anxiety and depressive symptom burden.In a principal-principal setting, the presence in the boardroom of independent directors appointed by minority shareholders can provide a unique and effective corporate governance solution to reduce agency costs related to undue appropriation of the private benefits of control by majority shareholders to the detriment of minority ones and compress information asymmetry issues. Independent minority directors acting as conduits of information to the market facilitate further engagement by active shareholders, promote better communication, and reduce disclosure manipulation. The growing relevance of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) related information on decision investment and the easy manipulation of non-financial information has prompted the authors of this paper to investigate whether independent minority directors can play an important monitoring role in conveying non-financial information to the market, thereby reducing managerial self-serving and manipulative practices in non-financial reporting. By examining a sample of Italian-listed companies from 2017 to 2020, we perform a lexicon-based content analysis on their non-financial reports and then use panel data dependence techniques to address our research aim. Our results suggest that, by reducing managerial self-serving and manipulative practices of non-financial reporting, minority shareholders’ representativeness impacts firms’ communication choices. This evidence confirms that independent minority directors are the right path for boosting minority shareholders’ legal protection and ensuring investors’ awareness in the decision-making process.There is a lack of research on the motivations of fosterers in countries that have traditionally used residential childcare institutions and are now shifting their policies towards family-based foster care. Understanding fosterers’ motives is important for developing an effective and long-term foster care system. The aim of this article is to understand the motivations of fosterers in a society that is undergoing deinstitutionalization process. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 16 active fosterers in Estonia (11 fosterers were from the Estonian majority and 5 from the Russian-speaking minority). The results show that new fosterers enter the foster care system with the desire to create a family and achieve a permanent arrangement. More experienced fosterers, who have fostered children for years, have done so largely because of the poor conditions in residential childcare institutions in the past. Although the foster care system has undergone significant positive changes, the improvements have not been enough to remove or lessen potential fosterers’ fears about the permanence and predictability of their fostering experience. These fears may lead to a foster care system that is inclined towards an arrangement similar to adoption where people prefer long-term care with fewer and younger children, leaving children who do not correspond to these criteria to remain in residential childcare institutions.Financial resilience is the capacity of individuals to effectively mitigate the impacts of adversities by utilizing appropriate resources. Previous studies primarily assess financial resilience using an ex-post approach, evaluating resilience after a shock has occurred, causing additional stress for households. Conversely, ex-ante assessments rely heavily on economic resources like savings and emergency funds to mitigate adverse effects. However, in developing countries with underdeveloped financial systems, access to financial services is a major challenge. Households in these regions rely on a variety of resources, capabilities, and networks to remain resilient. Thus, both ex-post and ex-ante approaches are limited by being narrow, unidimensional, and backward-looking. This paper posits that financial resilience is a forward-looking, multidimensional concept emphasizing ex-ante preparedness for future adversities using internal and external resources. We propose a financial resilience framework encompassing financial inclusion, financial literacy, digital literacy, participatory decision-making, and social capital. Using data from the 2016 Intermedia’s Financial Inclusion Insight Survey of India and employing multivariate statistical techniques, including multiple correspondence analysis and principal component analysis, we develop a composite measure of financial resilience. Our analysis identifies vulnerable segments of the population, suggesting that only about 2% of adults are financially resilient, while one-fourth are financially vulnerable. Specifically, adults in rural areas, females, younger and older individuals, those with low education levels, and individuals without full-time employment are more likely to be financially vulnerable. We discuss policy implications aimed at enhancing financial inclusion, financial and digital literacy, and women’s empowerment to better protect against future shocks.In recent years, scholarly attention to the relationship between housing wealth and its broader social and political implications has intensified, particularly in response to growing wealth disparities in advanced capitalist societies since the 1980s. These disparities have been further exacerbated by shifts in labor market conditions and welfare reforms that have increased income and employment instability. This study investigates the interplay between homeownership, income, and social trust in South Korea, employing path analysis to explore both the direct and indirect effects of homeownership on social trust, with perceived autonomy serving as a mediating factor. Furthermore, the analysis examines how homeownership and income jointly influence autonomy and social trust, with a specific focus on the moderating role of income. The findings reveal a positive association between homeownership, autonomy, and social trust, with homeowners generally exhibiting higher levels of both compared to non-homeowners. However, as income rises, these differences diminish, underscoring the moderating effect of income. These results highlight the pivotal role of homeownership, particularly for individuals facing heightened income insecurity. In contexts such as South Korea, where real estate constitutes a substantial share of assets, disparities in homeownership are pronounced, and welfare systems providing income-based support are limited, the study emphasizes how homeownership critically shapes social perceptions.PurposeTo explore the characteristic quality of health profiles of children with paediatric acquired brain injury (pABI), and to investigate whether improvement in executive function (EF) following cognitive rehabilitation is associated with improvement in health-related quality of life (HRQOL).MethodA study of secondary endpoints in a blinded, parallel-randomised controlled trial with children (ages 10–17 years) with pABI and executive dysfunction. Data was obtained from 73 children-parent dyads. Explorative analyses were conducted comparing baseline with 8-week post-intervention, and 6-month follow-up data. Outcome measures included the EQ-5D-Y-3L health dimensions and the visual analogue scale (VAS).ResultsAt baseline and 6-month follow-up, mean (SD) VAS were 76.22 (17.98) and 79.49 (19.82) on the parent-report, and 77.19 (16.63) and 79.09 (17.91) on the self-report, respectively. Comparing children who improved EF to those who did not improve/worsened, no significant improvement was found for the VAS (parent-report) over time (BRIEF-BRI:F= 2.19,p= 0.12, BRIEF-MI:F= 2.23,p= 0.12) for either group. A significant main effect by group was found for BRIEF-MI (F= 4.02,p= 0.049), but no time*group interaction (F= 0.414,p= 0.662).ConclusionThe children and their parents reported only minor problems across EQ-5D-Y-3L dimensions and evaluated overall health as relatively good. Participants with a clinically significant change in the metacognitive aspect of EF had higher HRQOL. Cognitive interventions aiming to ameliorate deficits in EF in pABI may be beneficial to improve HRQOL.Although there is recent growing attention on mental health and mental well-being across the globe, supports in this area of healthcare can be a challenge for immigrant and racialized groups with experiences of hardship across several domains. This study aimed to gather perspectives from immigrants and racialized community members on strategies central to support their mental health and well-being, with the aim of addressing research to practice gaps. The study was co-designed in collaboration with a Community Action Table in Markham, Ontario, a setting with 93% of residents self-identifying as visible minorities. Using a community-focused mixed methods Concept Mapping approach, 68 residents, service providers, and policymakers were engaged through three phases of brainstorming, sorting and rating, and interpretation. Their brainstorming led to 68 statements which they sorted into groups and rated for importance and feasibility to act in next six months. Further analysis led to a 9-cluster concept map comprising of Family Wellness, Awareness & Education, Cultural Sensitivity, Social Service Access, Community Building, Socioeconomic, Food Security, Healthcare Access, and Housing Stability. These clusters are important in advancing knowledge on ways to support and prioritize mental health and well-being of immigrants and racialized communities. Overall, participants viewed mental health and well-being as being closely tied to their living and working conditions while also focusing on family wellness and intergenerational dynamics. Novel insights from this project are important for the planning of mental health and well-being supports for immigrant groups in Canada and can help improve foci across sectors through service implementation.The training programs in marriage and family therapy have received criticism for providing multicultural counseling to diverse populations from White and Western perspectives. Training programs provide less focus on the training needs around cultural competency and cultural humility for students of color. This research study is a phenomenological approach to understand the experiences of students of color in their MFT training programs and during their early clinical experiences, as they developed their multicultural counseling competencies. After interviewing eight participants about their lived experience, data was analyzed via a thematic analysis and resulted in identifying three themes. (1) There are specific multicultural counseling skills that participants frequently use (2) Learning in a White environment means learning without adequate representation, without diverse content and research, and without discussions focusing on diversity. (3) MFT programs need to incorporate a more diverse training approach including increased diversity in its faculty, literature, and general content.This paper provides a new explanation for the limited participation puzzle in the Chinese financial market from the perspective of traditional family values. Using the 2013 and 2015 China Household Finance Survey (CHFS) data, this paper finds a negative relationship between traditional family values and household investment in risky financial assets. We provide evidence that traditional family values increase residents’ risk preferences, precautionary savings, and housing asset investment mechanisms, and therefore influence household asset allocation. The study also finds that the inhibitory effect of traditional family values on household investment in risky financial assets is more pronounced in rural households, central and western regions, and areas with lower internet penetration and openness to external influences.With a view of children as social negotiators, this study explored how preschool children’s voices were nurtured through the implementation of an early-writing/applied phonics approach called Kid Writing (KW). The approach encouraged children to compose writing from their lives as they were guided by an adult who scaffolded the writing process. An analysis of classroom observations, focus groups, and children’s work samples revealed the extent to which preschool children’s voices, motivation, and writing capabilities were supported. Imperative to children’s success as writers in this study was the expansion of preschool teachers’ views of what counts as writing. By legitimizing the full developmental continuum of children’s early writing attempts, including scribbling, mark-making, drawing, and early letter formation, the results of this study documented what young children are capable of when they are empowered to self-express through their joy of writing. The findings disrupt the notion that preschool children are not ready to write. Rather, children’s overall literacy learning is supported by providing opportunities for preschoolers to write from their lived experiences.Studies on marriage make important contributions to the psychosocial health of individuals. In recent years, there are cases where the marital relationship has been negatively affected due to the use of social media. In this context, the concept of digital stress emerges as a current problem. We have less information about the mechanisms underlying the dyadic relationships of married individuals. This study reports the results of 325 married couples using actor-partner interdependence modeling. The mean age of women was 36.19 (SD = 7.83, range = 21–60) and the mean age of men was 39.12 (SD = 8.55, range = 24–67). Digital stress, mindfulness in marriage, and marital adjustment were measured among married individuals. According to the results, women’s digital stress significantly predicted women’s mindfulness in marriage. Similarly, men’s digital stress significantly predicted women’s mindfulness in marriage. Furthermore, women’s mindfulness in marriage significantly predicted both women’s and men’s dyadic adjustment. Men’s mindfulness in marriage also significantly predicted women’s and men’s dyadic adjustment. It was found that women’s mindfulness in marriage has an indirect effect on the relationship between their digital stress and dyadic adjustment. In addition, men’s mindfulness in marriage has an indirect effect on the relationship between their digital stress and dyadic adjustment. These findings indicate that digital stress plays a significant role in marital relationships, and mindfulness is one of the key mechanisms in these interactions. It is suggested that interventions aimed at increasing mindfulness in marriage could mitigate the negative effects of digital stress and strengthen dyadic adjustment in couples.We investigated the relationship between parent and child mental health, including parents’ general psychological distress, among refugees resettled in Australia. We utilised longitudinal data from a sample (N= 602 children and 377 parents) of recently settled refugees from the Building a New Life in Australia Survey). Parent psychological distress and post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) were measured by the Kessler 6 and PTSD-8, respectively.HarshandWarmparenting behaviours were also measured to explore the mechanisms underlying the parent-child mental health relationship. Child mental health was measured using the SDQ. Using path analysis, we found that increases in parent psychological distress directly contribute to harsher parenting practices, which in turn increase child mental health difficulties as reported by parents. Parent psychological distress at Waves 1 and 3 also directly impacted child emotional and conduct difficulties, whilst parent PTSS was indirectly associated with all measured child mental health problems. While both parent PTSS and psychological distress indirectly impacted child mental health, only psychological distress directly impacted on any area of child mental health difficulty and overall explained more variance in the final model. Our findings highlight that non-trauma specific symptoms warrant attention in refugee parents’ and children’s mental health. Clinicians should assess for general psychological symptoms in addition to trauma-specific symptoms, and we recommend that parental mental health is assessed and treated simultaneously when working with refugee children. Moreover, to reduce the impact of other stressors in refugees’ lives, community sector organisations should be resourced adequately to support refugee families in settlement.PurposeThe COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent mitigation efforts impacted communities in many ways and placed immense strain on the health care system, impacting access to services. The purpose of this study was to examine changes in prevalence of child health care, child health, and caregiver and household health within children with autism and children with special health care needs (CSHCN) pre-pandemic to early pandemic years.MethodsWe examined data from the National Survey of Children’s Health to examine changes in child health care, child health, and caregiver and household health for autistic children and CSHCN from 2018 to 2021.ResultsAbout one-third of children with autism and CSHCN missed preventive checkups due to the COVID-19 pandemic and half had virtual care in 2021. Parents of children with autism had less help with care coordination in 2020 compared to previous years. In CSHCN prevalence of anxiety increased from 2018/2019 to 2021, with a concurrent increase in need for mental health care, this was not seen in children with autism. Finally, difficulty paying medical bills and for food was less common in 2020 and 2021 (compared to 2018/2019).ConclusionsThe COVID-19 pandemic changed the healthcare landscape for everyone, including children with autism and CSHCN as highlighted in this study. Understanding the disruptions and how they impacted populations differently can be helpful in informing plans long-term emergency preparedness. This planning should involve disability inclusive policies, to ensure the most vulnerable groups retain health care access as needed.PurposeThrombotic cardiovascular diseases profoundly impact patients’ health-related quality of life (HRQoL). However, patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments that are disease-specific or antithrombotic-treatment focused, developed according to US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) guidance on PROs, and can be used in clinical trials, are lacking. The aim of this study was to understand concepts important to patients diagnosed with coronary artery disease (CAD) or acute coronary syndrome (ACS), atrial fibrillation (AF), or stroke who require antithrombotic treatment for reducing risk of future thrombotic events (indications being evaluated for an investigational new drug), identify PROs that measure relevant symptoms and impacts, and determine acceptability of PROs from a health technology assessment (HTA) perspective.MethodsA landscape review, conducted between January 2009 and October 2020, included a search of qualitative literature (OVID), a review of PRO instruments using multiple sources (e.g., OVID and clinical trials databases), and a survey of HTA decisions for antithrombotic medications.ResultsThe qualitative literature review identified 27 publications used to develop a high-level conceptual summary of symptoms and HRQoL impacts reported by patients. The instrument landscape review indicated that generic PROs have been utilized for thrombotic indications, but disease-specific, fit-for-purpose instruments are lacking, and the HTA review revealed that although HTA agencies discussed PRO instruments, evidence of specific recommendations was not found.ConclusionTo ensure patients’ experiences, perspectives, and priorities are incorporated into drug development and evaluation, a core set of PROs for thrombotic indications that meet health authority guidance and are acceptable to HTA agencies is needed.Climatic variability has been linked to multiple demographic and health outcomes, which have important implications for human welfare and development. Despite the importance of these outcomes, few studies have examined its impact on household size. Household size is an important correlate of wellbeing and is driven by multiple demographic processes that may be affected by environmental shocks such as heat and drought. This paper describes these links conceptually, and then empirically examines how exposure to climate anomalies affects household size and three underlying components—fertility, marriage, and family agglomeration—that are observed in our data. We examine these relationships by linking harmonized census microdata from 11 sub-Saharan African countries with high-resolution climate data from the Climatic Research Unit (CRU) and modeling the effects of recent temperature and precipitation exposures on the outcomes of interest. Our analyses indicate that high temperatures may be associated with increases in household size. Models of the underlying demographic components of household size suggest that these temperature effects may be driven by increases in fertility and men’s marriage, assuming the latter involves marriage into an existing household. Evidence from exploratory country-specific models reveals significant spatial heterogeneity, raising important questions about the contextual moderators of climate-family dynamics for future research.ObjectivesThe American Academy of Pediatrics recommends clinicians who treat pediatric patients screen for prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) to facilitate the identification of children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders and promote timely access to behavioral and cognitive interventions. We evaluated how frequently clinicians inquire about PAE in their pediatric patient interactions and the methods used to ascertain this information.MethodsWe analyzed data from the Fall 2020 DocStyles survey, a web-based survey of primary healthcare professionals (n = 1754). Distributions for frequency of assessing PAE history for five pediatric populations and the methods used were calculated by clinician specialty (family practitioners [FP], pediatricians, and nurse practitioners/physician assistants [NP/PAs]) and overall. Chi-square and Bonferroni post-hoc tests determined whether frequency of assessing PAE history varied by specialty.ResultsAmong 779 clinicians serving pediatric patients, approximately 70.5%, 63.0%, and 60.7% reported often/always obtaining PAE history from parents of children with developmental/behavioral issues, adopted/foster children, and newborns, respectively. By contrast, less than half of respondents reported often/always collecting this information from parents of infants (47.6%) and new patients (38.2%). Most respondents reported collecting PAE history through interviews conducted by physicians or physician assistants (69.7%). Obtaining PAE history varied by specialty; pediatricians (71.5%) were more likely to collect PAE history for adopted/foster children when compared to FPs (57.7%,p= 0.003).Conclusions for PracticePAE history is not routinely obtained for pediatric patients. These findings highlight the need for trainings and practice supports to aid clinicians in identifying and treating children at-risk of FASDs.The State-wide Outreach Perinatal Services – Mental Health (SwOPS) is a telehealth consultation liaison service aimed at bridging the gap in perinatal mental health service provision in rural and remote areas across New South Wales (NSW), Australia. The service enables health professionals working within the NSW health service to refer perinatal women with moderate-to-severe or complex mental health conditions for assessment and treatment advice by a perinatal psychiatrist and senior clinical nurse consultant. There is, however, limited research evaluating the impact of the service. The current study represents the first qualitative investigation into the experiences of health professionals accessing the SwOPS service. Qualitative interviews were conducted with 12 health professionals from rural, remote and metropolitan areas who had experience with the SwOPS service. Data was analysed using a thematic analysis approach, four themes and 14 sub-themes were identified: accessing the SwOPS service (limited resources in rural and remote areas, expert advice, and education and clinical supervision), unique and valuable service (easy access and reduction in wait-times, reduces admission and re-presentation, and service providers and capacity building), benefits to health professionals (education, peer networking and community of practice, comprehensive reports), and room for improvement (need for increased resources, cultural sensitivity, expand service, access to electronic medical record, and improve marketing). Results highlight the limited resources available to rural and remote perinatal mental health services providers. Further, findings highlight the need for services such as SwOPS to help bridge the gap in the provision of mental health services and rural and remote areas.ObjectivesThis study aims to assess if an integrated simulation-based training on respectful maternity care (RMC) and management of obstetric and neonatal emergencies could improve the quality of antenatal care (ANC).MethodsThe data are from two cross-sectional surveys administered in the East Mamprusi District of Northern Ghana in 2017 to evaluate the impact of integrated simulation-based training for healthcare providers. Surveys were administered to two groups of women aged 15–49 who delivered in a health facility before (baseline;n= 266) and 6 months after (end-line;n= 320) the intervention began. We assessed the quality of antenatal care pre- and post-training across two dimensions: service provision and experience of care. Analyses included linear and logistic regression.ResultsWomen in the end-line group reported higher quality of antenatal care than those in the baseline group. The average ANC experience of care score increased by 10 points at the end-line (Coeff = 10.3, 95%CI: 9.0,11.6), whereas the mean ANC service provision score increased by three points (Coeff = 2.6, 95% CI: 2.2, 3.1). End-line participants were more likely to have an ultrasound (OR: 24.1, 95%CI: 11.5, 50.3). Parity, tribe, education, employment, partner occupation, six or more antenatal visits, ANC facility, and provider type were also associated with ANC quality.ConclusionsIntegrated simulation-based training for health providers has the potential to improve the quality of ANC. Incorporating such training into continuing professional development courses will aid global efforts to increase the quality of care throughout the maternity continuum of care.This study examines how young, unmarried, working people’s fertility intention is shaped by future scenarios where flexible working arrangements (FWAs) are the default. The unmarried population remains to be an under-studied part of the working population at reproductive ages, who nevertheless becomes increasingly significant for fertility research due to rising ages at marriage and the first birth. Despite significant public anticipation regarding the potential of FWAs to facilitate work–family balance and fertility, there is little research on the effects of FWAs on fertility intentions. We conduct a population-based vignette survey experiment to identify the causal effects of FWAs by randomly manipulating three scenarios of FWAs policy changes—reducing hours, increasing work-schedule flexibility, and increasing workplace flexibility—in Singapore, where both overwork norm and low fertility co-exist. All three types of FWAs improve fertility intentions. The effects are especially substantial for women, for which anticipated work–family conflict is an important mediator. Moreover, FWAs matter particularly to those in professional and managerial occupations. These findings call for policies facilitating a more family-friendly environment to tackle low fertility in the future of work.Diverse social ties are critical facilitators of well-being among older adults. Social ties might be especially important for aging immigrants who face multiple social and economic vulnerabilities over the life course. We investigated social ties (e.g., partners, children, other family, and friends) by immigrant status among older adults in the United States (U.S.). Data come from the 2018 Health and Retirement Study (N= 4,006), a national sample of older adults in the U.S. We used multivariable logistic regression to compare social ties (e.g., partners, children, other family, and friends) by immigrant status. We further explored interactions with sex and race/ethnicity. Older immigrants are more likely to report that they can rely a lot on their partners (aOR = 1.84, 95% CI 1.27, 2.68) but less likely to rely on friends (aOR = 0.72, 95% CI, 0.55, 0.94) compared to non-immigrants. Older immigrants are also less likely to meet frequently with friends (aOR = 0.66, 95% CI, 0.51, 0.86) and with other family (aOR = 0.71, 95%, CI, 0.55, 0.91) compared to non-immigrants. Lastly, older immigrant men are significantly less likely to meet with friends compared to non-immigrant men (aOR = 0.48, 95% CI, 0.32, 0.73). As the older population in the U.S. continues to diversify and immigrant older adults navigate their support options, older immigrants–especially men–may be at risk for less variation in their social support options, particularly from extended family members and friends.Socio-Technical Systems (STS) Theory is an organisation theory used to study the relationships, interdependencies, and interactions between social elements such as people and structures, and technical elements of task and physical systems. STS has recently gained popularity in the digital health field. To better understand how socio-technical systems can be used to research the health information management field, this paper explores STS theory from its origin, four different approaches, and their application in various studies. Leveraging knowledge gained from other industries on using socio-technical systems, an example of privacy demonstrates this theory’s application in current research examining HIM professionals’ contribution to patient safety in Australian acute hospitals. The article further explores why this approach is suitable for studying this workforce and why this theory remains relevant today.Partisans hold negative and inaccurate stereotypes of members of the out-party. In this paper we test the effectiveness of exposure to counter-stereotypical exemplars as a strategy for changing stereotypes and reducing partisan animosity. This strategy builds on the exemplification theory of stereotype formation, which holds that stereotypes of out-groups are constructed from exemplary group members that are salient in an individual’s memory. Drawing on an established experimental paradigm for studying racial stereotypes, we test this theory using an experiment that exposes partisans to either ideologically stereotypical or ideologically counter-stereotypical exemplars of their out-party. This strategy is notably more indirect than most strategies tested to reduce affective polarization, which rely on directly providing information, often in the form of misperception correction, about the distribution of out-party views. Despite this more indirect approach, our results suggest that exposure to counter-stereotypical exemplars can moderate stereotypes of partisan ideology and improve affect towards the out-party, relative to exposure to stereotypical exemplars. These results have important implications for our understanding of how negative and inaccurate views of the out-party form, and also suggest methods for reducing partisan animosity.PurposeAdults with arthritis experience poor health-related quality of life (HRQOL), though research often focuses on single HRQOL outcomes or summary scores. We aimed to identify HRQOL profiles in adults with different arthritis types and determine risk and protective factors.MethodsData including PROMIS-29 Profile v2.1 and PROMIS Short Form v2.0 – Emotional Support 4a were collected through a national foundation’s online survey of adults with arthritis in the U.S. We used latent profile analysis (LPA) to characterize the heterogeneity in arthritis patients by clustering them into HRQOL profiles, based on statistical model fit and clinical interpretability. We fit a multinomial logistic regression model with HRQOL profile assignment as the outcome to determine associations with protective and risk factors.ResultsWe included 25,305 adults with arthritis. The LPA results favored a five-HRQOL profile solution (entropy = 0.83). While some profiles displayed better HRQOL in some domains, 93% of the sample displayed impacted pain and physical functioning. One profile (20%) displayed mean T-scores nearly 2 standard deviations below the population mean. Despite poor physical HRQOL outcomes, one profile (10%) displayed average mental health. All demographic and clinical factors contributed significantly to the model, including risk factors (arthritis types, work status) and protective factors (more emotional support, starting exercise).ConclusionWe identified profiles with consistently impacted HRQOL in arthritis, though one displayed average mental health functioning despite poor physical functioning. These results highlight the value of considering the patient’s HRQOL experience alongside treatment options, and the potentially positive impact of non-pharmacological interventions.Period fertility rates usually subside in precarious times. The United Kingdom’s (UK) decision to leave the European Union (EU) may be seen as a typical example of a policy choice that creates uncertainty. Did Brexit-related uncertainty influence fertility rates in the UK? With regional data at the Nuts 3 level from Eurostat, we apply Difference-In-Difference (DID) and panel time event regression analysis to answer this query. The obtained estimates suggest that the Leave decision significantly reduced regional total fertility rates in the UK in the short run. We also noted a negative effect on fertility in the post-referendum period across both UK and non-UK European regions. Our findings may be a piece of the puzzle regarding the prolonged fertility decline observed in many developed nations during the 2010s.Living in a stepfamily can be stressful due to several challenges that confront individuals within stepfamilies, hence adaptive coping is vital for wellbeing. Nonetheless, little research focus has been devoted to understating how individuals within stepfamilies cope with family-related distresses. Using a qualitative exploratory approach, this study explored coping strategies used by 11 stepparents and 22 adolescent stepchildren in the Ghanaian context. Findings show that whereas stepchildren adopted a wide range of coping strategies which were mostly emotion-focused, stepparents used less diverse strategies. Nonetheless, both groups used strategies that were both emotion-focused and problem-focused although, for stepchildren, two of the problem-solving strategies were maladaptive. Findings reflect the imbalanced power hierarchy that exists within the stepfamily household that tends to disadvantage stepchildren. Implications of the findings are discussed.Annual surveys continue to demonstrate an increasing prevalence of mental health difficulties among college students, resulting in increasing help seeking behaviors. One factor identified as predicting both well-being and mental health symptoms among college students is family functioning. The Family Adaptability and Cohesion Scale IV (FACES-IV) is a popular instrument that assesses family functioning for use in both clinical and research contexts. However, the FACES-IV has not been specifically validated among the college student population. This study examined the psychometric properties of the FACES-IV with 684 primarily female college students from 18 colleges and universities across the northeastern, midwestern, and southern United States in 2018. Given the data, an alternative three-factor model of the FACES-IV was explored with the sample. Implications for using the FACES-IV in research and practice with college students are discussed.This article builds on conversations about the nature of a pedagogy specifically for babies, which are defined in this paper as 0–2 year olds. To do this, we explore articulations of social purpose and social pedagogy among 15 baby room educators working in UK nurseries. Our findings suggest four types of social purpose and four types of social pedagogy that inform what baby educators do, how they do it and why they do it. The baby educators in our study articulated their social purpose in terms of providing a secure foundation for childhood and adulthood; acting as a support system for parents; enabling healthy early development; and inspiring learning across the lifespan. Correspondingly, they identified their social pedagogy in terms of giving care and nurture to meet physical and emotional needs; cultivating parent partnerships; planning activities, interactions and resources around developmental goals; and creating provocations to stimulate learning based on individual interests. We hope that this typology helps to deepen our understanding of what baby educators experience and the pedagogies they enact day to day, as well as acting as a reflective tool for baby room educators to use to deepen their practice.Autonomy is essential for the emancipation and viability of systems and empowers individuals and teams to make decisions and act with flexibility and agility. This becomes particularly significant in volatile environments, where rapid decision-making is particularly important for system responsiveness. The viable system model (VSM) advocates maximum operational autonomy as a fundamental condition of viability. Having autonomy structured in a system is core to a viable design. While ensuring operational autonomy is core for effective response in complex and volatile environments, the paper explores through a case study some reasons why autonomy may not be exercised properly in the middle of a crisis. It does so by analysing the factors that influence how delegated autonomy is perceived and exercised in a multi-agency emergency response system during its operations. It does so by analysing qualitative data collected in a UK county that responded to a major disaster. The findings suggest that discrepancies resulting from systemic and social factors such as identity, values, ethos, and risk aversion created difficulties for operational teams in responding autonomously. The paper offers three contributions to VSM First, it provides insight into the importance of including social awareness and systemic analysis in viability diagnosis to ensure its practical value. Second, it suggests ways to deepen this type of analysis and further clarify the VSM theory about challenges to developing operational autonomy. Third, it contributes to the discourse on system emancipation in soft OR by showing the significance of multi-methodological diagnosis that it includes, in addition to structural diagnosis, identifying conflicts among systems elements as well as human interactions and interpretations.The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the critical need for reliable energy access, underscoring energy poverty as a significant barrier to social well-being and sustainable development. This study develops a comprehensive multidimensional index to assess energy poverty in developing countries using a hybrid approach that integrates fuzzy set theory with Delphi, DEMATEL, and ANP methods. By evaluating 33 indicators across five dimensions—availability, adequacy, affordability, cleanability, and convenience—this study refines the list to 19 key indicators through expert consensus and constructs a cause-and-effect relationship among them. The analysis identifies electricity consumption per capita as the most critical indicator of energy poverty. The index is applied to 119 developing countries, revealing stark disparities, with Chile having the lowest and Chad the highest energy poverty scores. The findings emphasize the need for targeted interventions and policy measures to enhance energy access and reduce socioeconomic inequalities, thereby supporting the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 7 (SDG 7). This study offers a robust framework for policymakers and researchers to address energy poverty effectively in the post-COVID-19 era.In comparison to resident fathers, non-resident fathers face formidable challenges in maintaining a consistent presence in their children’s lives. Such challenges tend to exist on multiple contextual levels--intrapersonal, interpersonal, neighborhood, community, cultural, and societal. We conducted semi-structured, qualitative interviews with a sample of eight participants who identified as an African American, biological, non-resident father to at least one child, ages 5–17. We explored barriers and facilitators to their involvement on five contextual levels—self, co-parenting, family, social/community, and societal. We employed a phenomenological methodology which revealed numerous barriers to involvement with children, including the father’s own personal lived experiences, conflictual co-parenting and family dynamics, engagement in the street lifestyle, and challenges with parenting across multiple households. Findings also revealed several supports to involvement with children, including the father’s determination to be involved and growth mindset toward fathering, positive and supportive co-parenting relationships, family support, and fatherhood programs. The results of this study are intended to provide contextually-based insights for service providers that can be translated into service delivery and applied to programs that focus on eliminating barriers and increasing supports to father involvement, thereby improving child well-being and enhancing family functioning.PurposeTo develop the Norwegian value set for the EQ-5D-5L based on interviews with a representative sample of the Norwegian adult population.MethodsRandom and quota sampling were used to recruit the sample of adults (age> 18 years) representative of the Norwegian general population. Data collection followed EQ-VT 2.1 undertaken before and after the COVID-19 pandemic from November 2019 to December 2022, using PC-assisted and video conferencing interviews, respectively. Each respondent valued 10 health states using composite time trade-off (cTTO) and 7 health states using a discrete choice experiment (DCE). Different statistical models were assessed for logical consistency and predictive accuracy using cTTO and DCE data alone or in combination as hybrid models.ResultsOf the 1,321 respondents, 1,237 met inclusion criteria. All statistical models demonstrated logical consistency. The weighted hybrid model combining both cTTOand DCE data was preferred and had the highest predictive accuracy. Predicted values ranged from -0.453 to 1, and the dimension of anxiety/depression was the most highly valued by respondents, followed by pain/discomfort, self-care, mobility, and usual activities. These findings are not dissimilar to those for most Western European countries, and regression coefficients are closest to those for other Scandinavian countries.ConclusionThis study provides the Norwegian value set for the EQ-5D-5L based on health state values obtained from members of the adult general population in Norway. This is an important contribution to economic evaluation and the broader application ofthe EQ-5D-5L in Norway including clinical and health services research, and quality measurement.In explaining national identity as an indicator of subjective belonging to the nation-state, researchers have examined factors such as occupational structure, economic discrimination, competition, and political recognition. However, the influence of cultural factors has often been neglected. By investigating the moderating effect of Shia and Sunni rituals on national identification, I find that the nature of rituals significantly influences the strength of national identity among subordinate ethnic groups. In Shia culture, the solidarity generated through ritual practices extends into national identity, fostering the formation of a confessional supra-identity. In contrast, rituals centered on personal piety in Sunni Islam do not produce the same effect. I propose a theory of interethnic solidarity based on ritual processes. A qualitative analysis of the cases of Turkey and Iran shows that in Turkey, the absence of cross-ethnic ties forged through less intense rituals leads to weaker national identity among Sunni Kurds and higher perceived ethnic discrimination. In Iran, however, the frequent practice of interactive rituals that transcend ethnic boundaries strengthens national identity among Shia ethnic minorities and reduces perceived ethnic discrimination. This research underscores how communal, intensive rituals play a key role in explaining variations in national identification.At present, research exploring educator’s understandings of displays of student work is scant yet such displays are regularly exhibited within the community spaces of early learning and elementary schools. These displays communicate messages to those within the space about teacher and student agency, curricular priorities, children and their work, and the relationship between teaching and learning. Grounded in a framework of documentality and teacher vision, this paper explores the ways in which preservice teachers (PSTs) understand teacher-cultivated, student work documentation. This research used a Photo-Elicitation Interview methodology to develop a descriptive account of PSTs' visions and understandings of teacher-cultivated, classroom documentation and displays of children's work. Findings reveal that PSTs held paradoxical views of student work documentation teetering between an appreciation of an adult-centered aesthetic disconnected from their academic and creative capacities to an expressed valuing of an agentic positioning of children in the experiences of the classroom.Most prior U.S. political discussion research has failed to pay close attention to the networks of political independents, and to the differences between true partisans, leaners, and true independents. This is in direct contrast to the (appropriately) growing research attention paid to the decades-long rise in the proportion of independents and the decline of true partisans. This study presents representative U.S. survey data that compares political discussion frequency, network size, and the partisan composition of the discussion networks of partisans, leaners, and independents. After applying controls for ideological strength and political interest, we find that the three groups do not differ in discussion frequency or network size. However, there are meaningful differences across the groups in three different network composition measures, including partisan bias. We interpret our findings in the context of both applied measurement considerations and normative democratic expectations of partisan diversity within discussion networks.PurposeAssessing socioeconomic status (SES), mental health, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in young children is crucial for making informed health care decisions and identifying areas of intervention. The present study aimed to investigate potential associations between SES, mental health, and HRQoL in 5–7-year-old children.MethodThe present study included mother-reported health assessments for 621 children aged 5–7 years in Grade 1 collected between 2019 and 2023 as part of theStarting Right™project. Online questionnaires were used to support public health nurses in assessing children’s health status. HRQoL (KIDSCREEN-27, 5 subscales) and mental health [Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), 4 subscales] were assessed. Sociodemographic characteristics, sex, maternal education, and income were obtained from Statistics Norway. The data were analyzed using multiple robust regression.ResultsMother-reported mean scores for the KIDSCREEN-27 were within the normal range compared with European norms (8–11 years). However, for each KIDSCREEN-27 dimension, there were individuals whose mothers reported scores that were substantially lower than average. Having mental health problems, defined as being in the 80th and 90th percentiles of the SDQ Total problem score, was associated with 2.1–10.7-point lower KIDSCREEN-27 scores (p< 0.001–0.021), which was most noticeable in the KIDSCREEN-27 school environment subscale. Weak but significant positive associations were found between SES and HRQoL.ConclusionOur results provide important insights into the associations between SES, mental health, and HRQoL in young children. Given the strong association between mental health problems and HRQoL in Grade 1 children, the assessment of both is essential, so that early interventions, an improved caring environment, and nurturing support can be initiated.PurposeSocial factors are associated with mental health and wellbeing. However, few studies have examined genetic and environmental influences on social factors themselves, limiting current understanding of influences on aspects of the social environment. Most studies which have identified links between social factors and mental health are also limited by the possible influence of unmeasured genetic and environmental confounding. In this study, we investigated the genetic and environmental underpinnings of multiple social factors (relationship satisfaction, loneliness, attachment, trust, relationship disruptions), and their associations with life satisfaction measured concurrently and six years later, after accounting for shared genetic and environmental confounding.MethodsData from a population-based sample of adult twins (N = 1987) and two measurement timepoints were used for the primary analyses. We used multivariate Cholesky models to estimate genetic and environmental influences across five social factors. Subsequently, we conducted co-twin control analyses to examine associations between social factors and wellbeing after controlling for shared genetic and environmental confounding.ResultsHeritability estimates for the social factors ranged from 24 to 42%. Genetic correlations across social factors were substantial, indicative of considerable genetic overlap. Associations between wellbeing and relationship satisfaction, loneliness, anxious and avoidant attachment, trust, and disruptions in relationships in the past year were attenuated in co-twin control analyses but remained statistically significant. Relationship satisfaction, loneliness, and attachment avoidance were also associated with wellbeing measured six years later in estimates which controlled for shared genetic and environmental confounding.ConclusionOur findings provide evidence that multiple social factors are associated with wellbeing after accounting for potential confounding by shared genetic and/or environmental factors. These findings highlight the importance of multiple aspects of the social environment for wellbeing in older adulthood. Future studies should examine the directionality in associations between social factors and mental health and assess these relationships beyond older adulthood.IntroductionThis study assessed the influence of intrapersonal (one’s own emotions) and interpersonal (emotions of others) emotional competence (EC) of informal caregivers on their quality of life (QoL) at the beginning of cancer care.MethodsParticipants completed two questionnaires assessing their intrapersonal and interpersonal EC (S-PEC) as well as their QoL (SF-36) at the beginning of treatments. Multivariate ANCOVA regression analyses were then performed to explore the influence of EC on QoL.ResultsThe questionnaires were completed by 203 caregivers. As expected, intrapersonal EC was associated with a better QoL in all sub-dimensions (p< 0.01). More surprisingly, interpersonal EC was associated with worse QoL in terms of physical role (− 8.97 [95% CI − 16.74; − 1.19]), emotional role (− 8.37 [95% CI − 16.27; − 0.48]), and general health (− 4.50 [95% CI − 8.08; − 0.92]).ConclusionIntrapersonal EC should be improved for better QoL of caregivers of cancer patients. However, the more caregivers are attentive to the emotions of others (e.g., by identifying, understanding, listening and helping to manage emotions), the more their physical and psychological state has an impact on their daily life and their perceived health is impaired.PurposeThe aim was to compare quality of life (QoL) of patients with testosterone recovery (TR) to patients without TR after the completion of either 18- or 36-month androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for prostate cancer.MethodsFrom a Phase III trial, we selected all 630 randomised patients with testosterone measured at baseline (during screening, before randomisation) and follow-up and who completed baseline, 6-month and, at least, one further QoL questionnaire in follow-up (EORTC 30 - PR25). We estimated means and standard deviation of items and scales for each group at each time point. We analyzed items and scales scores with general linear model with repeated measures to evaluate changes between patients with or without TR to a normal level. p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons with Benjamini-Hochberg’s false discovery rate procedure (padj). A padj< 0.05 was considered significant and mean differences of 10 points or more considered clinically relevant.Results494 patients retained for analysis (median follow-up 16.2 years). A significantly higher number of patients (177/314 vs 79/180, p = 0.008) recovered a normal testosterone level in a significantly shorter time [median (IQR): 3.06 (2.55–3.65) vs 5.00 years (4.5–5.96), p < 0.001] in the 18- vs the 36-month cohort. Patients with TR had a significantly better QoL: 37/55 items and 14/21 scales (padj<0.05) in the 18-month and 25/55 items and 13/21 scales in the 36-month cohort. Moreover, 9 items and one scale reached clinical relevance in the 18-month cohort and 7 items and one scale in the 36-month cohort.ConclusionsTR is associated with significant regaining in QoL. A faster and significantly higher TR is seen in the shorter ADT schedule.Civil registration establishes legal identity for individuals and related government-issued identification document. Civil registration data are used to generate vital statistics which are an important source of data to policy-makers planning public policies and researchers studying population dynamics. However, many resource-poor countries lack a functioning civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) system. Learning the factors that affect CRVS can help data users to better understand the context behind these data. The Government of Lao People’s Democratic Republic is in the process of conducting a social and behavior change communication (SBCC) campaign to improve civil registration. In preparation, a qualitative study was conducted to understand the residents’ knowledge, attitudes, practices, facilitating factors, and barriers regarding civil registration. One hundred seven key-informant interviews and 22 focus group discussions were conducted with government and nongovernmental organization employees, development partners, and residents employing semi-structured guides during July-December 2018. Data were analyzed using ATLAS.ti 23 applying the grounded theory and constant comparative analysis methods plus analytic memo writing. Findings show that barriers to civil registration include various costs involved in registering vital events, lack of awareness of civil registration, long distances to registration offices and poor road conditions, perceived lack of benefits, and long, complicated registration procedures. Respondents recommended the SBCC to inform the public about the legal mandate for and benefits of civil registration, and instruction on how to register vital events, using multiple channels, such as television, outreach visits to villages, posters, radio, village chiefs and loudspeakers, brochures, face-to-face meetings, social media, etc.Do voters who dislike the other side prefer candidates who can win, even if they are less representative? Negative partisanship is an important feature of American politics, but few scholars have examined its relationship to voter decision-making. We argue that negative partisanship shapes how voters prioritize candidate electability and substantive representation. Using two conjoint experiments, we find that a primary candidate’s likelihood of beating the opposing party in the general election has a strong influence on whether they are chosen as a voter’s strategic choice (who they would vote for) and sincere choice (who best represents their interests). Importantly, the effect of electability is conditional on voters’ feelings toward the opposing party, but not their own party. Negative partisans are also more willing to trade greater ideological and policy representation for a better shot at electoral victory.Worldwide, parental divorce and separation rates are high. These include impactful experiences to all involved, posing risks on well-being and functioning of parents and their children, and leading to increased professional care seeking. The Dutch ‘Divorce ATLAS’ training aims at informing and empowering parents after divorce or separation. The intervention offers preventive support and psychoeducation in a 2-sessions group program. We aimed to assess the effectiveness of Divorce ATLAS for parents in the Dutch setting. We performed a quasi-experimental study in which we compared parents participating in Divorce ATLAS groups (n= 187) and parents on a waiting list for online support (n= 111). Outcomes included well-being of parents and their children, parental sense of competence and social support, and children’s prosocial behavior. We performed regression analyses to assess differences in outcomes between intervention and control group. Additionally, we measured and reported parental knowledge and trigger to act after the intervention. As compared with routine family support of parents in the control group, the Divorce ATLAS group intervention led to increases in parents’ sense of parenting incompetence (Hedges’g= 0.19), and in perceived social support (Hedges’g= 0.23). Moreover, most parents indicated that Divorce ATLAS had increased their knowledge and had triggered them to act accordingly. Hence, the increased sense of parenting incompetence in the intervention group may be due to increased participants’ awareness of their parenting behaviors. In sum, Divorce ATLAS is promising for educating and supporting parents after divorce.ObjectivesLow-income individuals facing criminal charges experience disproportionately high rates of pretrial detention and conviction. We study a pilot program in Santa Clara County, CA that aims to address this inequity by providing access to public defenders immediately following arrest.MethodsThe Santa Clara Public Defender agreed to provide pilot services one day per week, rotating the intervention day across weeks. Individuals booked on an intervention day were eligible for early legal representation, while individuals booked on control days received public defender services as usual. The study leverages the rotating treatment day to compare pretrial release and case outcomes between eligible individuals booked on treatment days and eligible individuals booked on control days.ResultsPilot program participants were 28 percentage points more likely to secure pretrial release, and 36 percentage points more likely to see their cases dismissed, relative to comparable individuals who generally first meet with their public defender at arraignment.ConclusionsProviding prompt access to legal representation could improve release and case outcomes for low-income individuals and the efficacy of public defense.Egyptian emigration has been addressed as a singular incident, and it does not examine the possibility of returning to its home country or moving to another destination. Thus, more studies are needed to fill a gap in our knowledge of emigration from Egypt. Using a multistate life table approach, the study estimated the probability of emigration from Egypt according to destinations and the exact age of the emigrants, the probability of returning from the destination to the home country before reaching age 60, and the expected migration time in each destination; the study depended on data from the rich nationwide “The Egypt Household International Migration Survey.” Results confirm the pattern of migration from Egypt, which is acknowledged through previous studies, except that the driver of migration is no longer unemployment but rather in search of better conditions or a decent life. Also, the results indicate that Saudi Arabia attracted the largest percentage of working-age emigrants from Egypt, while Kuwait was the more stable destination. Libya is considered the least stable destination for Egyptian emigrants and the preferred country for young emigrants. Moreover, Saudi Arabia was the preferred destination for older Egyptians, followed by Kuwait. The probability of returning to Egypt increases significantly at 50-59 for all destination countries except Jordan. Finally, if an Egyptian emigrant wishes to move from their first destination, the next destination will be Saudi Arabia.Little is known about the sources of parenting stress and the coping strategies adopted by parents of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in China. The current study aimed to explore the stress and coping strategies adopted by Chinese parents using stress-coping theories. A qualitative study was conducted on fifteen parents whose children, aged between 7 and 11 years (from primary school grades one to five), had received a formal diagnosis of ADHD. The findings revealed that Chinese parents use individual, family and school coping strategies to cope with their stress. The themes that emerged from the data included five types of stressors and eight coping strategies. The choice of the strategy adopted by the parents was influenced by cultural and environmental factors; in particular, family coping strategies required the availability of a supportive spouse and a supportive family culture. Similarly, school coping strategies required the availability of school involvement opportunities and school support resources. Since the support offered by teachers and mental health professionals such as school counsellors and social workers can be strengthened, this study recommends ways to strengthen the support provided to parents of children with ADHD.The body of literature for a professional field is created by voices from people who share their ideas with others through scholarly writing. How do emerging scholars acquire the requisite academic writing skills to publish and contribute to publishing research in our profession? Mentorship is a time-honored practice that could be considered. One possible way to prepare people to amplify their voices through their scholarly writing is through mentorships. Writing mentorships, defined here as a productive collaboration between a more experienced academic author and an emergent scholar that results in professional publication, is the focus of this article. The authors will provide an overview of a specific mentorship program called, Division for Early Childhood Consortium for Innovations in Doctoral Excellence (DECIDE). The article concludes with strategies for generating more productive and satisfying mentor and mentee writing relationships with recommendations for future research.Although quality early childhood education and care (ECEC) and strong collaborations between families and ECEC educators are important for all children, they may be particularly important for children and families who utilize nighttime or weekend ECEC. This study focuses on ECEC educators’ discourses about closeness versus distance in educational collaborations between parents with nonstandard schedules and professionals who work in extended hours ECEC. The data for this study were collected by interviewing ECEC teachers (n= 12) and nurses (n= 18) working in Finland.Research findings: Using the principles of discourse analysis, we found three tensional discourses: (a) the timing of ECEC and asynchrony; (b) a sense of time versus hurry; and (c) care versus criticism.Practice and policy: The findings revealed that extended hours ECEC provides both challenges and possibilities for creating close educational collaboration with parents. This has important implications for the kinds of structural supports and training educators in extended hours ECEC may need to foster quality collaboration with families.The COVID-19 outbreak posed significant challenges for teachers by forcing them to move from face-to-face teaching to online teaching. Against this background, teachers’ beliefs about, and practices of, online teaching became particularly important because they might influence teachers’ teaching effectiveness and children’s learning. However, little is known about the factors affecting teachers’ beliefs about, and practices of, online teaching during COVID-19. This study examined the associations of psychological distress and professional identity with perceived value of online courses and perceived quality of online teaching among 127 Chinese preschool teachers during COVID-19. Results showed that depression and loneliness were negatively associated with perceived value of online courses and perceived quality of online teaching, respectively, while professional identity was positively associated with both. Our findings highlight the unique roles of psychological distress and professional identity in shaping preschool teachers’ beliefs about, and practices of, online teaching during COVID-19. Policymakers should establish effective policies and guidelines to protect preschool teachers’ mental well-being and help alleviate their psychological distress, particularly depression and loneliness, in times of unforeseen disasters such as the pandemic. School leaders and teacher training professionals should prioritize professional identity as a crucial part of preschool teachers’ professional development during the COVID-19 outbreak.In recent years, there has been a significant increase in literary narratives from South Asia that confront the imaginative and representational challenges posed by the contemporary climate crisis. Drawing on insights from the emerging field of Critical Plant Studies, this paper reads recent Indian climate fiction for children from a “phyto-centric” perspective, analysing its representation of plants, and examining the ways in which literary encounters with botanical life can foster a sense of ethical responsibility. In Bijal Vachharajani’s recent young adult novel,Savi and the Memory Keeper(2021), the narrative characterizes trees as “mother trees”, “memory keepers”, and as signposts of climate change. This paper will examine how the narrative makes use of botanical tropes in reimagining environmental crises and activism on a scale relevant to young readers. In doing so, we also probe the ways in which botanical life in children’s environmental narratives perform an ecopedagogical function as trumpeters of the climate crisis.This study explores how institutional and managerial ownership influence the connection between executive directors’ pay and firm performance in South Africa. Employing panel linear regression models and Johnson-Neyman analysis, complex insights are revealed. This study revealed that institutional ownership acts as a double-edged sword, positively moderating the link between long-term and total incentive remuneration and Return on Assets (ROA), while negatively influencing the relationship with market-based metrics like Tobin’s Q. This suggests that institutional shareholders play a dual role in enhancing long-term alignment and tempering short-term performance pressures. Managerial ownership also demonstrates mixed impacts, positively moderating the relationship between both short-term and total incentive remuneration, and ROA, but negatively moderating the link between long-term incentive remuneration and Total Shareholder Return (TSR). These findings underscore the delicate balance between managerial incentives, shareholder interests, and long-term value creation. While higher managerial ownership aligns with short-term shareholder goals, it may also lead to managerial entrenchment and short-termism in certain contexts. This study contributes to literature on corporate governance and executive remuneration in an emerging market setting.. By revealing the nuanced effects of institutional and managerial ownership on the pay-performance relationship, the paper provides valuable insights for policymakers, investors and corporate leaders aiming to improve governance practices and foster sustainable value creation. Our study offers essential implications for corporate governance practices and sets the stage for further inquiry into the intricate relationship between ownership structure, executive compensation, and firm performance.Research on immigrant populations shows that child care choices are dependent on the population’s region of origin. While the Russian immigrant population in the United States comprises the largest group of immigrants from Eastern Europe and is likely to increase in the future, there is virtually no research on Russian immigrant families’ child care search and selection criteria. This qualitative study applies the theoretical model of Pungello and Kurtz-Costes (1999), which illustrates how factors such as parental demographic characteristics, environmental context, child characteristics, and parental beliefs play into families’ child care selection. The study draws from semi-structured interviews with 11 Russian immigrant families residing in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States to examine their child care search processes and selection criteria. Results revealed that most parents found child care through friends’ recommendations, Internet search, and online reviews. Nine themes describing child care criteria valued by Russian immigrant families emerged from the analysis. Specifically, parents mentioned culture and personal beliefs, child characteristics, convenience, cost and subsidy, education and learning, program features, facilities and environment, teacher characteristics, and rating and reputation as the major factors in selecting child care. Understanding Russian immigrant parents’ child care information sources and selection criteria will allow for early care and education (ECE) providers to accommodate the needs of Russian immigrant population and for policymakers to facilitate access to ECE programs for these families.Can exposure to successful immigrants in the mass media affect perceptions of immigrants and alter attitudes toward immigration? To address this question, I study the case of Ozlem Tureci and Ugur Sahin, the co-developers of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, and children of Turkish immigrants in Germany. I first demonstrate that German media favorably highlighted the Turkish roots and migration history of vaccine developers. Leveraging the quasi-experimental setting with the announcement of the success of the vaccine, I then posit that the wide broadcasting of the vaccine’s success and its developers’ identity should have positive spillover effects on public attitudes towards immigration. Amongst those who were exposed to this announcement, compared to those who were not, there is a 4 percentage-point increase in support of easing immigration opportunities. I suggest that this effect is driven by a change in perceptions and knowledge on issues relating to immigration and integration. These findings imply that promoting successful immigrants in the media has the potential to diminish prejudice; however, it is crucial to address varying biases toward different immigrant groups.ObjectiveThis article studies how misreporting errors in crime surveys affect our understanding of the Dark Figure of Crime (DFC).MethodsThe paper adopts a Partial Identification framework which relies on assumptions that are weaker (and thus more credible) than those required by parametric models. Unlike common parametric models, Partial Identification handles both under-reporting and over-reporting of crimes (due to, say, stigma, memory errors or misunderstanding of upsetting events). We apply this framework to the Crime Survey for England and Wales to characterise the uncertainty surrounding crimes by severity and geographic region.ResultsDepending on the assumptions considered, the partial identification regions for the DFC vary from [0.000, 0.774] to [0.351, 0.411]. A credible estimate places the true DFC in [0.31, 0.51]. This range was obtained while allowing for a substantive amount of reporting error (25%) and assuming that people do not over-report crimes in surveys (saying they are a victim of crime erroneously or falsely). Across regions, uncertainty is larger in the north of England.ConclusionAccounting for misreporting introduces uncertainty about the actual magnitude of the DFC. This uncertainty is contingent on the unknown proportion of misreported crimes in the survey. When this proportion is modest (10% or below), raw survey estimates offer valuable insights, albeit with lingering uncertainty. However, researchers may want to opt for Partial Identification regions based on larger misreported proportions when examining relatively infrequent crimes that carry substantial stigma, such as sexual crimes or domestic violence. The width of the partial identification regions in this paper fluctuates among different regions of England and Wales, indicating varying levels of uncertainty surrounding the DFC in distinct localities. Consequently, previous research relying on parametric assumptions and resulting in singular point estimates necessitates re-evaluation in light of the findings presented herein.Growing up in socioeconomic disadvantage is a consistent predictor of poor mental health. Although research has largely focused on objective socioeconomic position, studies exploring howsubjectivesocial status confers risk for psychopathology have consistently found that youth with lower subjective social status are at increased risk for mental health problems compared to their higher subjective social status peers, regardless of the objective socioeconomic environment. Yet, it remains relatively unknown how subjective social status relates to objective socioeconomic measures and to mental health in marginalized groups. The current study tested whether subjective social status predicts mental health above and beyond objective socioeconomic indicators in a community-based sample of Black adolescents living in poverty (N= 270;Mage= 16.32). Perhaps surprisingly, the majority of mental health outcomes analyzed were not significantly associated with either objective or subjective socioeconomic measures. Cultural, contextual, and racial considerations should be considered in future research on subjective social status and adolescent mental health.As more laws emerge in the EU’s member states that regulate lobbying, this growing trend also warrants a closer look at how lobbying regulation at EU level has evolved, not least since some of the new lobbying registers have looked to the EU’s system for inspiration. The European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission signed an inter-institutional agreement on a mandatory transparency register on 20 May 2021 (OJ L 207, 11.6.2021, p. 1–17) with an accompanying political statement (OJ L 207, 11.6.2021, p. 18–18), effectively making prior registration a condition for certain interest representation activities. Since the Parliament and the Commission first joined forces in their efforts to shed light on interest representation, advocacy and all other types of lobbying in 2011, their goal has not changed fundamentally. However, the appetite for transparent decision-making and accountability both on the side of the decision-makers and on the public scrutiny side has grown alongside wider efforts to ensure the resilience of democratic structures and processes in uncertain times. In this context, this paper examines what the EU institutions’ transparency register can and cannot do, how the EU’s institutions achieve compliance with their carrot and stick approach and how the new conditionality principle introduced in 2021 makes registration de facto mandatory for interest representatives seeking to influence policy and decision-making of the Parliament, the Council and the Commission.This study assesses trends in regular (i.e., at least weekly) sports participation among people aged 55 + in the Netherlands. It also examines later-life sports participation differences between native Dutch people and their counterparts in four groups with a non-Western migration background (Turkish; Moroccan; Surinamese; Dutch Caribbean), and on how such differences developed between 2003 and 2020. Logistic regression analyses of population-based repeated cross-sectional survey data (n =4,362) showed that regular later-life sports participation increased substantially between 2003 and 2020. Older people in all migrant groups considered were less likely than native Dutch people to participate in sports regularly. KHB decomposition analyses indicated that the rise in later-life sports participation between 2003 and 2020 and the lower sports participation rates of people of Turkish and Moroccan origin could partly be attributed to differences over time and between groups in educational attainment. Models with interaction terms were furthermore estimated to assess how ethnic differences in sports participation developed over the observed period. These models showed that the sports participation gap between people of Moroccan origin and native Dutch people became smaller between 2003 and 2020. Nevertheless, native Dutch people remained the group most likely to participate in sports regularly.IntroductionMalnutrition in early childhood has long-term health consequences, including increased obesity risk due to catch-up growth in undernourished infants. While maternal perceptions and feeding practices affect infant malnutrition, limited evidence exists in middle-income countries like Mexico. This study examines the associations between maternal perceptions, feeding practices, and nutritional status in infants aged 6–12 months in northeastern Mexico.MethodsA total of 192 mother-infant dyads were assed using questionnaires and anthropometric measurements. Maternal variables included perception of hunger and satiety, infant weight perception, feeding attitudes, self-efficacy, fatigue, and feeding practices. Infant nutritional status was determined using WHO Anthro, and multiple logistic regression identified associations between maternal and infant factors and nutritional status.Results38% of infants were overweight/obese, and 7% were underweight. Low maternal self-efficacy, low perception of hunger and satiety signs, non-recommended feeding attitudes, and inaccurate perception of infant weight were identified. Maternal nocturnal sleep hours, type of feeding, and feeding frequency were associated to underweight. The maternal perception of infant weight was inaccurate for both underweight (mothers overestimate the weight) and overweight/obese (mothers underestimate the weight) infants.DiscussionThe main maternal perception influencing infant nutritional status was inaccurate weight perception. Mothers demonstrated limited knowledge and negative feeding practices with non-recommended feeding practices among Mexican mothers. Longer maternal sleep duration (> 8 h/night) was associated with underweight infants.Given recent public suicides of pastors and the devastation felt by congregations, it is important to investigate what might contribute to pastors’ intent to die by suicide. For the current study, 158 pastors-in-training completed a survey on intent to die by suicide and possible correlates. They also reported on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on their religious life. Two-thirds (66.4%) of the participants reported suicidal ideation and/or at least one suicide attempt in their lifetime. Stepwise regression analysis of suicidal behaviors and correlating factors shows that perceived burdensomeness in interpersonal relationships, emotional support given to church members, and fear of suicide increase suicidal behaviors. Religious service attendance and child-related concerns reduce suicidal behaviors. The COVID-19 pandemic had negative impacts on participants’ relationship with God and connection with their faith community. The negative impact of the pandemic on relationship with God correlates with increased suicidal ideation in the first year of the pandemic. Practical implications of these findings for helping pastors hurting in ministry are discussed.This study addresses the paucity of research concerning the elimination of development gaps and fairness issues in the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the sub-national level. Drawing upon China’s provinces as cases, we compute the China Provincial Sustainable Development Goal Index (CPSDGI), comprising one total SDG index and 14 individual SDG indices, and employ an array of quantitative methods, including the Theil index, SDG dashboard, linear regression, and spatial autocorrelation analysis, to scrutinize inter-provincial disparities and frontier issues. Our results indicate the following: (1) Despite some reduction in disparities among the three regions in China, overall provincial discrepancies have not undergone significant amelioration, with each province exhibiting persistent vulnerabilities across various SDGs; (2) while economic development imbalances have been alleviated, disparities in public services have become more salient and onerous to address; (3) notably, gender equality gaps are more arduous to narrow than those in economic equality; and (4) most significantly, SDG9 manifests the most uneven development and necessitates greater attention with respect to both time and space. The study carries implications for SDG localization and emphasizes the crucial imperative of the SDG principle of ‘no one left behind’.Previous cross-sectional research has found large cross-country differences in crime-related feelings of insecurity associated not with crime rates but with welfare state policies reflecting that fear of crime serves as an expression of generalized social insecurities. The financial crisis plunged European societies into a period of severe socio-economic insecurities. Against this backdrop, I use hybrid multilevel models to test hypotheses if changes in socio-economic conditions and social policies – in particular following the 2008 financial crisis – have affected feelings of insecurity in 27 European countries, using nine rounds of the European Social Survey. Most indicators except the homicide rate did not show significant effects on fear of crime in the longitudinal dimension. The consequences of the financial crisis for people’s well-being did not extend to fear of crime. Social expenditures in-kind for families and children showed the strongest association with fear of crime cross-sectionally but may lack the necessary country-level variation over time to produce significant effects. Mirroring research on generalized trust, fear of crime seems relatively stable over time and deeply associated with welfare state institutions.Climate change is a fundamentally a call for human change. What is being asked of us as pastoral practitioners in this new situation? This article reflects on this question through the lens of listening. Traditionally, we have listened primarily to otherhumans and/or the voice of the transcendent mediated throughhumanchannels. But these are not the only voices. Other-than-human voices—wind, water, fire, atmosphere, and non-human creatures—are now making their presences urgently felt. Earth herself is crying out. In response to this challenge, we attempted to re-imagine a traditional program of pastoral formation known as clinical pastoral education (CPE). To begin to listen to Earth’s voice involves a radical turning, a change of worldview and practices of attention. Reflection on a classic text (or theological reflection), a core component of the CPE process, played a critical role. In this article we listen to the classic wisdom text of the book of Job, particularly the astonishing speech of YHWH in chapters 38–39; provide an overview of the structural changes developed in CPE programs in eco-ministry; and trace the journey of one intern within one of these programs. This example shows the transformative outcomes that can occur when the core of pastoral care, empathic listening, is extended to the more-than-human world.While parental violent disciplining of children is a global concern, children living in low- and middle-income countries like Bangladesh are particularly more vulnerable to harsh disciplinary practices at home. There is limited empirical evidence on the use of disciplinary practices in Bangladesh, impeding the development of prevention practices. This study investigated the extent of violent child disciplining and parental attitudes toward physical punishment and identified their predictor using data from the 2019 Bangladesh Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey. Violent discipline includes any form of physical punishment like spanking, slapping, or hitting any part of the body, as well as psychological aggression such as shouting, screaming, or name-calling. Study participants were 44,570 mothers/caregivers of children aged 2–14 years. Multilevel mixed-effects logistic regression models were fitted to identify the predictors of violent disciplinary practices and parents’ attitudes toward physical punishment. The results revealed a very high prevalence of violent disciplinary practices in Bangladesh. About 89% of the mothers/caregivers reported using at least one form of violent discipline; 39% were spanked, hit, or slapped on the bottom, 29% were hit or slapped on the face, head, or ears, and 5% were beaten up as hard as one could. Younger children, and children from urban areas, certain administrative divisions, poorer families, children with functional difficulties, less educated mothers/caregivers were more likely to experience violent discipline. About 35% of mothers/caregivers supported physical punishment, indicating a large discrepancy between attitude and the practice of violent discipline. Parents’ attitudes appeared as one of the strongest predictors of violent discipline. Prevention efforts should be made to promote positive parenting and minimize the gap between parental attitudes and the practice of physical punishment.Informed by models of resilience in military families, we explored factors theorized to be associated with social-emotional resilience and risk among young military-connected children. Our secondary analysis of cross-sectional data from 199 military-connected families (n= 346 parents) with at least one preschool-age child in the home (n= 199) led to the empirical identification of two distinct clusters: families with children demonstrating healthy social-emotional functioning and those showing indicators of less healthy social-emotional functioning when compared to the first group. We then identified factors associated with membership in each cluster to determine which deployment and parental well-being variables were salient for young child adjustment. Parent psychological symptoms, parenting, child behavior, and parent-child relationships were measured by parent report and observed interaction. Children with healthier social-emotional functioning were found to be residing with families experiencing less stress and distress. The importance of maternal trauma history is highlighted in our study, as elevated maternal symptoms across all three posttraumatic stress disorder symptom domains were associated with child social-emotional risk. Basic family demographic characteristics did not contribute significantly to the cluster distinctions, nor did military service factors such as active duty, reserve or veteran status, military rank or parent deployment history. These findings are important as the results deemphasize the importance of military service characteristics and highlight the importance of parent well-being when considering social-emotional risk and resilience of young children within military families.ObjectivesThe analytic workhorse of modern sentencing research is the multi-level model—which gives more “empirical voice” to statistics coming from larger clusters. While an overall cluster balancing adjustment is certainly needed, it does not correct for subgroup unbalancing—a material issue in the federal system where a few districts contribute an outsized number of minority defendants (i.e., the problem of uneven contribution). The goal of this study is to demonstrate how heavy saturation of racial/ethnic minority defendants in a select few districts obscures the generalizability of system-wide, multi-level, statistics.MethodsTo provide a more holistic understanding of the system-wide effects generated by the multi-level model, the current study supplies descriptive and multivariate analyses of racial/ethnic differences in federal sentencing outcomes ranging 2018 to 2021.ResultsOur main finding is that although the multi-level regression coefficient shows Hispanic federal defendants receivelongersentences than Whites (net of controls), most Hispanic federal defendants are sentenced in areas where they can expect to receiveshortersentences than Whites (net of controls). This seemingly incompatible finding exists for Black-White comparisons too—but to a lesser extent.ConclusionsA racially/ethnically clustered federal court system, an overall cluster size adjustment, and heterogenous statistical conclusion validity across districts, coalesce to deliver system-wide racial/ethnic effects reflecting the social world of the few. Seeing as people are sentenced, not places, the outsized voice of low minority contribution districts produces a misunderstanding of the scope and nature of racial/ethnic differences in sentencing.In 1977, Michael Lipton introduced the Urban Bias Thesis as a framework for understanding how most economic policy initiatives have contributed to the overdevelopment of urban areas and the underdevelopment of rural areas. In Latin America, there has historically been a positive correlation between urbanization and mortality decline, as the region’s health transition generally began in the main cities and tended to proceed more rapidly in countries with higher levels of urbanization. This paper seeks evidence of a residual urban bias in the region’s mortality patterns. Using a sample of Latin American countries over the 2000–2010 period, I analyse the disparities in mortality patterns and avoidable causes of death by looking closely at urban and rural areas using continuum categories. The results indicate that the urban advantage does persist and that rural–urban mortality differentials have consistently favoured the largest cities. The metropolitan advantage in mortality is an outcome of lower mortality in causes of death that are avoidable through primary interventions. Even in scenarios of high mortality at younger adult ages (15–44), the metropolitan advantage remains, due primarily to unsuccessful efforts to reduce mortality in populations aged 45 years and over outside the main and large cities.In this paper, we investigate the validity of objective operator data as proxy indicators for riskier gambling as based upon an independent self-report measure. Such work is important to strengthen the validity of gambling research involving objective behavioral indicators of harm used to detect higher risk gambling or product choices. To address these aims, a total of 21,464 individual customers from a single international operator completed the Problem Gambling Severity Index (PGSI). These data were then mapped to measures of player gambling activity and a range of objective behavioural markers of harm. The results confirmed that people scoring 8 + on the PGSI were found to have higher levels of gambling involvement (participation, days active and expenditure) on a range of gambling products, with differences generally larger for casino than wagering activities. Importantly, this group was also more likely to have a higher incidence of behavioural markers of harm (e.g., declined deposits). The data allowed for the replication of a previous study using such markers to detect differences in product risk, but further validated their use in a variety of analytical contexts by showing a concordance between self-reported and objective risk measures.Considering the high prevalence of intimate partner violence (IPV) against women in Nigeria and the dire health implications, this study assessed the multilevel factors associated with the severity of IPV (SIPV) among ever-partnered women (i.e., ever-married or cohabited) in Nigeria. The 2018 Nigeria Demographic Health Survey (712 women) was analyzed using descriptive statistics and multiple ordinal logistic regression. Results show that 19.7%, 17.7%, and 62.6% of women experienced more severe, less severe, and no severe IPV, respectively. At the individual level, the odds of more severe IPV (MSIPV) were higher among women whose male partners drank alcohol (compared to those whose male partners did not). At the household/ relationship level, the odds were lower among childless women (than non-childless women with male children). The odds of MSIPV were higher for those exposed to interparental violence (than the unexposed) and as the male partner’s control score increased. Male partner’s dominance in household decisions was negatively associated with more severe IPV. At the community level, the odds of MSIPV were lower for women in communities with high support for wife-beating (than communities with low support). Compared to the North-Central region, the likelihood of MSIPV was greater among women in the North-East. This finding may help interventions for protecting and preventing women from experiencing IPV in Nigeria.PurposeTo provide further evidence on the psychometric properties of the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy–Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) in moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CD), and to determine thresholds for meaningful improvement in fatigue.MethodsThe FACIT-Fatigue is a 13-item patient-reported outcome measure (range, 0–52) assessing fatigue over the previous week. Using pooled data from the Phase 3 VIVID-1 study of moderately to severely active CD, psychometric properties of FACIT-Fatigue were evaluated up to Week 52. The Patient Global Rating of Severity (PGRS) and Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) were used as primary anchors to estimate the FACIT-Fatigue score change representing meaningful improvement.ResultsPsychometric analyses included 1065 adults. The FACIT-Fatigue demonstrated good internal consistency, and correlations between individual items and the total score were moderate to strong. The FACIT-Fatigue score showed moderate to strong correlations with other patient-reported assessments and weak correlations with endoscopic/laboratory assessments. The FACIT-Fatigue differentiated between distinct groups of participants varying in disease severity, quality of life, and fatigue based on PGRS and other assessments. FACIT-Fatigue improvements during the study differed significantly between most PGRS change and PGIC categories. Anchor-based estimates suggested a 6–9-point increase in the FACIT-Fatigue total score as meaningful improvement.ConclusionsThe FACIT-Fatigue demonstrated strong psychometric properties in the VIVID-1 population of adults with moderately to severely active CD and determined a FACIT-Fatigue score change threshold representing meaningful improvement.Trial registrationNCT03926130. Registered 23 April 2019,https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03926130.Preventing adolescents from engaging in Health-Risk Behaviours (HRBs) requires a comprehensive understanding of the factors linked to HRBs. Factors like dysfunctional parenting practices and emotion regulation difficulties may significantly contribute to the development and persistence of HRBs. However, this association, particularly the mediating effects of emotion-regulation difficulties, has not been extensively investigated among Indian adolescents, as such research has predominantly centred around Western cultures. The current study explored emotion-regulation difficulties as a mediator in the association between perceived parenting practices and HRBs. The sample comprises 723 adolescents (Mage= 16.05; Males = 440) selected from various schools in the Punjab state of India. Structural equation modelling using item-parcels and the path analysis tested the stated hypotheses. As hypothesized, difficulties in emotion regulation were found to be a partial mediator of the parenting-HRB relationship. By offering empirical evidence of this mediational mechanism, the study enhances our understanding of how perceived parenting influences adolescent behaviour. Emotion dysregulation may be the underlying factor behind the development and maintenance of HRBs. These insights can guide researchers in designing targeted interventions to address emotion regulation difficulties and, in turn, help reduce HRBs among adolescents.This paper analyses the regulatory context, i.e., how IFRS preparers investing in Poland react to banning IFRS use by domestic firms in the alternative trading market (NewConnect) after six years of regulatory arbitrage. In other words, it studies their portfolio investment and foreign direct investment (FDI) outward sensitivity to the end of regulatory arbitrage opportunity given by the alternative market’s regulation in the country where accounting law limits IFRS use to regulated markets and business groups where the parent company uses IFRS. The contribution is built on the natural experiment of prohibition of domestic IFRS preparers issuing shares on the alternative (not-regulated and cheaper) trading market after 2012. The originality is delivered by implementing a de facto measure of IFRS adoption by foreign investors to identify a 69% growth rate of IFRS preparers investing in Polish firms in 2012 (317% growth of Swedish investors and 219% of Portuguese) that dropped to 8% in 2013 and 3% in 2018. Thus, we check whether investing decisions consider opportunities to gain funds or attract other investors and build trust through IPOs on the unregulated market dedicated to start-ups and engaged in R&D activity. We use difference-in-differences, GMM dynamic panel-data analysis with Arellano-Bond and Arellano-Bover/Blundel-Bond estimators for the Knowledge-Capital model on portfolio investment, outward FDI overall, and three FDI components based on debt, equity, and earning reinvestment in 2003–2019. We found that banning IFRS use by domestic firms in the alternative market discourages portfolio investments, debt-based FDI flows and FDI earnings reinvestment. Also, total FDI and equity-based FDI from countries with more IFRS preparers have been reduced since 2013 due to the IFRS ban for domestic firms.Following the “bellicist” school of state formation, the external threat of war is expected to spur polity formation by centralizing military capacity (Tilly, in Coercion, Capital, and European States, Oxford, Basil Blackwell, 1990). It has been argued that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine could provide such an impetus for centralization in the EU polity (Kelemen & McNamara, Comparative Political Studies, 55(6):18–34, 2022). We adapt the Tillian argument to the era of mass democracy, where governments need citizen support. Public support is crucial because it can constrain governments in times of crisis, especially regarding salient policies. We do not yet understand what degree of centralization the European public supports and under which conditions it can increase. We conduct an experiment where we vary both the Russian (escalation from presence in Ukraine to the invasion of Moldova or Lithuania) and the American responses (continuation of support vs. withdrawal) and see how European preferences vary for polity building in defense. We field our experiment in 7 countries (Germany, France, Italy, Portugal, Finland, Poland, and Hungary) with different sensitivities and exposures to the war in Ukraine. We propose an alternative argument to the Tillian approach based on the seminal Milwardian argument according to which polity coordination of national capacities is preferred (Milward, in The European Rescue of the Nation State, University of California Press, Berkeley and Los Angeles, 1992). We show theoretically and empirically that external threats can actually hamper polity centralization, at least in the short term. Rather, they strengthen the subunits of a polity through coordination.PurposeMany people living with multiple sclerosis (PwMS) experience poor sleep, which is associated with diminished overall health-related quality of life (HRQoL). We quantified associations between sleep quality and HRQoL domains and examined the extent to which other MS symptoms could account for these associations.MethodsIn this cross-sectional survey of 1,717 Australians with MS, we used Assessment of Quality of Life (AQoL) 8D and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) to assess HRQoL and sleep quality, respectively. Total, direct, and indirect effects of sleep quality on HRQoL domains were determined using mediation regression analysis.ResultsPoor sleep quality was significantly associated with all domains of HRQoL, with strongest associations seen for mental health (β=-0.08) and pain (β=-0.11), and weaker associations for independent living (β=-0.05) and senses (β=-0.03). Poor sleep quality had the largest direct effect on mental health (60.8%), happiness (48.7%), and pain (49.7%). MS symptom clusters mostly contributing to indirect effects were “feelings of anxiety and depression” for psychosocial, and “pain and sensory symptoms” for physical HRQoL super dimensions.ConclusionImproving sleep could lead to substantial improvements in all HRQoL domains and the improvement in HRQoL could be partially achieved through indirect improvements in sleep on MS symptoms.While recent years have seen a substantial increase in research on clientelism, nearly all of it pertains to clientelism as an electoral strategy. This paper offers a general stocktaking of our understanding of the key issues in how clientelism arises, performs and (perhaps) diminishes, drawing on electoral studies while recognizing that findings in this realm do not always generalize to others. The specific questions addressed are: (1) What are the commonalities between electoral and non-electoral clientelism, and in what respects is the former distinctive? (2) What is the salience of the “commitment problem”—uncertainty over the future performance of clientelist offers—in both electoral clientelism and clientelism in general? (3) Given that clientelism entails exchanges over status inequalities, what is its relevance for studies of prosocial and dominant/submissive behaviors, and vice versa? (4) How should we view the relationship between the extent of clientelist practices in a given society and its degree of social, political and economic development or institutionalization? (5) Does clientelism require voluntary participation, or can it accommodate aspects of coercion? (6) How should clientelism be viewed normatively according to commonly applied criteria? The paper concludes with a few issues that deserve greater attention in future research.As early as preschool, Black children are more at risk than their peers to receive exclusionary practices. These negative early childhood school experiences can create greater risk for entrance into the preschool-to-prison pipeline. However, familial protective factors can help reduce exposure and mitigate this systemic pipeline for young children. The purpose of this study was to determine the familial factors associated with reducing a child’s entrance into the preschool-to-prison pipeline. Results from this study indicated that there were differences in perspectives among teachers and families regarding their child’s academic and behavioral risk. The findings also suggest that consistent strategies and collaboration among teachers and families can serve as familial protective factors, potentially mitigating the risk of academic failures and behavioral disorders.Emerging research has highlighted potential associations between micro-transaction use and problematic videogame and gambling behaviour. An increasingly prominent theory highlights that self-determined motivations and basic psychological needs may play crucial roles in the development of problematic videogame and gambling behaviour. However, literature discussing the role that micro-transaction use has in this relationship is scarce. The present study examined the role of micro-transactions in the relationship between self-determined motivations for gaming and gambling and problematic behaviour (internet gaming disorder and problem gambling severity). A sample of 370 participants (74.1% male,Mage= 28.24 years,SD= 7.88) answered questions related to their gaming and gambling motivations, basic psychological needs, micro-transaction use (i.e., type of micro-transaction, expenditure, and frequency of use), internet gaming disorder, and problem gambling. The present study used structural equation modelling methods to test relationships between these variables. The results indicated positive associations between extrinsic gaming and gambling motivations and frequency of micro-transaction use. Frequency of micro-transaction use (i) partially mediated the relationship between extrinsic gambling motivations and problem gambling severity, and (ii) fully mediated the relationship between externally regulated gaming motivations and problem gambling severity. Expenditure on micro-transactions and basic psychological needs were not found to be significant variables in the present study. Potential explanations for the findings, including a lack of self-esteem and a need to boost ego, social pressure, and rapid reward processes, are discussed. The implications and applications of the research are also discussed, focusing on limit setting and policy development focusing on frequency of micro-transaction use.Depression in adolescents is detrimental to their quality of life and wellbeing. Previous research has found that childhood psychological maltreatment (CPM) is positively associated with adolescents’ depressive symptoms. However, little is known about the relationship between parental CPM and depressive symptoms in their offspring. Therefore, the present study aimed to examine the relationship between parental CPM and offspring depressive symptoms, as well as the possible mediating variables in this relationship. The present study recruited 315 Chinese high school students (Mage= 17.27, SDage= 0.80, 137 boys) and their parents to complete the Child Psychological Maltreatment Scale and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale. The results revealed that parental CPM was related to both offspring psychological maltreatment and parental depressive symptoms. Furthermore, we found that the relationship between parental CPM and offspring depressive symptoms was mediated by parental depressive symptoms and offspring psychological maltreatment. These findings suggest that parents with a history of psychological maltreatment were related to increased adolescent depressive symptoms through the exposure of the next generation to CPM. These results have some implications for parents and adolescents in terms of intervention approaches to treat CPM and depressive symptoms, which could further promote health and wellbeing.Scalable light-touch programs that align with the Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT) approach is becoming an established intervention model for refugee youth with symptoms of post-traumatic stress. Teaching Recovery Techniques (TRT) is one example and, as TF-CBT guidelines state, parent sessions are included as the model relies on parents to provide support and instigate the techniques. In addition to traumatic stress, refugee families are often subjected to acculturative, isolation and resettlement stress. This study sought to understand how refugee parental involvement in TRT functions in practice and how it is perceived by participating youth, parents, and facilitators in Sweden. Thirty semi-structured interviews (11 youth, 8 parents, and 11 TRT facilitators) were conducted by phone or videoconference, transcribed, and analyzed using Thematic Network Analysis. A global theme ‘Parental engagement in trauma recovery requires dedicated attention’ emerged. Three organizing themes sat within this global theme: (i) Shifting roles when adapting differently to a new context; (ii) Tendency to keep parents at a distance; and (iii) Parent sessions don’t just happen. Whilst the potential for refugee parent involvement was recognized, a number of factors preventing their participation were identified. Cultural adaptations within TRT facilitators’ training are recommended, including: raising awareness about contextual factors and changes in family dynamics with regard to trauma and migration; adopting culturally responsive ways to present parental involvement to youth and parents; adding positive parenting skills; addressing parental mental health and readiness; and preparing facilitators to redirect parents to adequate services, when needed.How can we work with diverse cultures and diverse ways of knowing whilst enabling space for diversity? Metalogues can help to avoid (or remedy) misunderstanding, leaving ideas out,speaking fororover others. It provides breathing space between the stimulus of engagement and the process of coming up with an agreed upon output or outcome. This postcolonial and non-anthropocentric approach is rooted in collegiality and a recognition of our hybridity and interconnectedness with many species; as such it celebrates ‘entangled life’ (Sheldrake2021) with Indigenous and non Indigenous academics, leaders and community practitioners, including farmers. The paper discusses the dynamic process. Could this process be considered multispecies neuroscience in action?Black older adults (65 +) represent 24% of all nursing home (NH) residents in the USA, and 20.2% of Black NH residents have Alzheimer’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease–related dementias (AD/ADRD). Despite their growing presence, when compared to their White counterparts, Black older adults experience worse health outcomes and are more likely to reside in lower-quality NHs, a direct byproduct of systemic racism. To cope with the stress of inadequate care delivery, many Black residents rely on external social support networks. Little research to date has explored how external social support is or can be, leveraged by Black residents for improved care delivery. Drawing on the minority stress model, we applied thematic analysis to three focus group transcripts (n= 22) conducted with Black AD/ADRD caregivers in Minnesota. We found that resident social support networks overwhelmingly adopted a “support through advocacy” mentality. Although these efforts are grounded in the care of their friends or family, advocacy behaviors often extended to other NH residents who self-identified as lacking social support. Given the disproportionate share of Black residents with AD/ADRD living in institutional-based long-term care settings, understanding both formal and informal care delivery practices, especially the role of Black resilience, is essential to delivering high-quality care.Drawing on a mixed-methods evaluation of the New Teacher Induction Programme of the South African Department of Basic Education, this paper examines the role of Professional Learning Communities in enabling the transition of newly qualified teachers (NQTs) into their professional roles in schools. The article focuses on one of the four components of the induction programme, namely, the participation of NQTs in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs) and examines the experiences of newly qualified teachers as members of their respective professional learning communities. It begins by examining the range of typical early career challenges and, thereafter, shows how the social capital fostered through their collaboration in communities enables  to overcome a range of challenges they face. As the results of the study show, PLCs provide safe spaces where new teachers experiment, share experiences and engage in collective reflection and problem-solving. The new teachers reported a range of professional and personal benefits, including their professional growth, expanded peer networks, and a stronger sense of belonging. Moreover, their responses show how their participation in PLCs contributes to developing their self- and collective efficacy, increasing their resilience, and enabling their transition into the teaching profession. As a participatory action research study, the paper shows the dual benefits of the PLCs – both in supporting the personal and professional development of novice teachers and in informing the development of broader educational policy. The results of the study led to the expansion of the New Teacher Induction Programme and the national adoption of PLCs – illustrating how teacher experiences can inform policy in bringing about meaningful change.Lynching became a popular part of the lexicon in India during the last decade, and the word is used to communicate incidents where a group of people takes justice into their own hands. Considering the violent nature of lynching, it became a topic of intense debate. Yet, there is a lack of definitional clarity, and the ambit of lynching has been stretched to signify various forms of violence. Even the modest number of scholarly research projects takes the term “lynching” for granted. Considering the ambiguity surrounding it, this study analyzes and articulates the phenomena of lynchings in India, particularly during the period 2000–2021 while undertaking a genealogical study to illustrate the history, and the meaning of the word and how it has evolved over the years alongside the associated phenomena. To do so is to take away the misleading objectivity the word can sometimes generate. Following the conceptualization of lynchings and its changing expression in different societies, particularly the United States of America, the article highlights in what ways the definition and content of lynching have become more symbolically charged and the reasons for the change as well as what made lynching an extraordinary form of violence.This quantitative study was designed to examine whether the visual information provided by extra-facial elements (i.e., human bodies and contextual surroundings) affects emotion-identification accuracy among young adults with an autism spectrum disorder. Participants were 15 young adults with autism spectrum disorder (Mage= 19.47) and 15 neurotypical young adults (Mage= 19.73), who identified emotions (fear, anger, disgust, happiness, sadness, surprise) from photographs. Author-developed stimuli were used, which included head-only, whole-body-only, and whole-body-in-a-context (e.g., a person in a store) visuals. Participants viewed the images and verbally identified the emotions. Findings showed that emotion-recognition accuracy among young adults with autism increased when identifying emotions from whole-body-in-a-context images compared to their performances on the head-only or whole-body-only visuals. Young adults with autism were also less accurate than neurotypical young adults on head-only and whole-body-only visuals, but no significant differences were found between groups when identifying emotions from whole-body-in-a-context visuals. Neurotypical participants showed no significant changes across visuals. These findings indicate that young adults with autism may rely on visual information, such as bodily and contextual cues, to accurately identify emotions, which has ramifications for this group’s ability to recognize emotions in real-world situations and may inform future evaluations and interventions.The history and evolution of Sociology in Italy have a particular path which, from the second post-war period onwards, has as its objective the task of promoting the growth of the country's social culture, i.e. strengthening the connection between social science, scientific knowledge, culture, and daily life. Between difficulties and enthusiasm, the discipline faced significant changes towards modernization that also crossed Italy in the same period: the territory, the productive activities, the national life, the lifestyles of the Italians, and their consumption changed. Since the 1960s onwards, Sociology has taken its place in the country's daily life as a "cultural form of a wider culture" even though it did not represent a hegemonic discipline in the Italian panorama. In the same years, the development of the Italian cultural industry and the evolution of the culture market undergo a strong acceleration, assuming a central role in the social life of Italians and a guiding function in the elaboration of the collective imagination. In this context, the contribution intends to focus attention on the cultural studies that have developed at a national level following two main areas of development: 1) the emergence of the media and 2) the multiple nature of cultural products and material culture in the Italian scenario from the economic boom to nowadays.Despite the growing interest in the migration of older adults in China, the intricacies linking migration motivations with destination choices remain insufficiently explored. Drawing from China’s unique context, we categorize inter-provincial older migrants into three types: employment-led, dependent, and lifestyle. Using microdata from the Sixth Population Census of 2010 and the 1% Population Sampling Survey of 2015, we examine their evolving motivations and corresponding shifts in destination preferences. The analysis shows an increase in lifestyle-oriented migration and a decrease in dependent migration, while employment-led migration has remained stable relative to the total. Older migrants seeking employment tend to favor destinations further south, prioritizing regional economic conditions. In contrast, those motivated by lifestyle factors exhibit a broader range of destination choices, largely due to their preference for amenities. Dependent older adult migrants consider both job-related and amenity-related factors and demonstrate a stronger tendency to relocate to the east. Amenity-related factors have increasingly influenced the destination choices across all three types of migration over time. Our findings provide deeper insights into the intricacies of migration in old adulthood and highlight the need for tailored policymaking.This paper aims to provide the basis for a conceptual framework on the linkage that integrates the application areas of blockchains in the public sector and their impact dimensions. Applying the literature review methodology, 33 selected articles were explored in-depth to identify their thematic key points, which led to their attribution to two categories consistent with the RQs of this work: application areas and impact dimensions of the blockchain technology in the public sector organizations. The results enable the identification of a cross-functionality of the impact dimensions (trust, governance, and sustainability) that cut across the main application areas (public health, transactions and fiscal processes, and policy-making), from which derives the basis for a conceptual framework. The conceptual framework links the application areas and impacts of blockchain in the public sector and leads to some concluding remarks on managerial/policy implications and future research opportunities.Despite its importance for the social sciences,human agencyremains an ambiguous and underoperationalized construct. After engaging prior research to articulate clear criteria for defining agency and synthesize a multidimensional conceptual framework for human agency, this study develops and validates preliminary General Human Agency Indicators (GHAIs) to measure subconstructs within that framework. Utilizing the Midlife in the United States (MIDUS) dataset, we aggregated a list of 30 survey items previously used in agency research and conducted an iterative process of exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and item elimination to reduce that list to a set of 9–13 items with a strong, consistent factorial structure. Using confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), we identified two bifactor models that demonstrated good fit: a nine-item General Personal Agency scale (GPAS) and a nine-item GHAIs tool combining six items from the GPAS with three measuring agency achievement. Initial evidence for the construct validity of the tools was produced through tests of internal consistency and correlational analysis, indicating that the proposed GPAS and GHAIs effectively measure personal agency, intrinsic agency, instrumental agency, and agency achievement.The aims of this scoping review were to generate an overview of the existing literature on the role emotions play in pastoral care, to determine what research has been done, and to consider how this knowledge is being applied in pastoral care and counseling. Four databases (Atla Religion Database [Atla RDB], Medline Ovid, PsycINFO Ovid, and Education Resources Information Center [ERIC]) were researched for studies exploring emotions in pastoral care and counseling. Forty-six empirical studies published over a period of 10 years (2010–2021) were included in the scoping review. The authors read and analyzed the articles with a focus on how individuals experience emotions and on how the articles addressed emotions in their studies. Based upon the results of thematic analysis, we identified five themes: (1) aiming for a new PCC praxis, (2) the two main types of pastoral care, (3) a focus on basic emotions, (4) changing emotions in pastoral care, and (5) the development of creative methodologies to approach emotions within PCC. To date, there has been little research in this field regarding connecting conceptualizations and strategies to address emotions in the context of pastoral care. This scoping review addresses this issue and highlights the need for future studies and practical applications.The research focuses on developing a computational model (agent-based) to describe and analyse the structure and evolution of a conspiracy bubble within Facebook. The methodological framework relies on a hypothesis, previously validated in other digital contexts, asserting that user groups interested in conspiracy topics form not isolated cliques but rather constitute a subculture characterised by a system of “subjective understanding” (Tucker, W. T. (1965). Max Weber's verstehen. Sociol Q, 6(2), 157–165) and specific interpretative categories (Russo & Cecconi, Russo, V., Cecconi, F. (2023). Collettivi digitali e cultura della disinformazione. Analisi di una bolla cospirazionista durante la pandemia di Covid-19. Sociologia Italiana, (22).; Barkun, Barkun, A culture of conspiracy: Apocalyptic visions in contemporary America, University of California Press, 2013; Grusauskaite et al., Grusauskaite et al., New Media & Society, 2023). In accordance with this hypothesis, the research design incorporates four types of entities: the conspiracy articles generated in the digital space, the websites where they come from, the public pages and groups where they are shared, and the users engaging with this content. The methodological process unfolds in two phases: (1)descriptive, data mining and analysis of the content and structure of a conspiracy bubble, along with the construction of a relational dataset; (2)experimental, development of the agent-based model, creation of scenarios, model validation, simulation, and subsequent data analysis. The research findings reveal a bubble comprising a singular component characterised by hub nodes functioning as cultural catalysts and specific interpretative categories shared among users. Simulation results show that the network fragments in response to changes in two article properties acting as ‘glue’: political orientation and the incitement of fear and hate.Smuggling industry plays a key role in the international migratory processes; it is a world-wide and often misunderstood phenomenon which operates in a multiplicity of spaces and at different stages: at the beginning of the ‘journey’ and along the route, when migrants need to rely on supporting networks to cross borders and continue their journey. This industry also operates in a concatenation of loops involving different actors, which include migrants who pilot the small boats transporting migrants across the sea. Although these migrants are not formally affiliated with the smuggling organizations, they find themselves unwittingly drawn into the activity, compelled to operate the boats ferrying migrants at sea and consequently facing criminalization processes. Focusing on the Eastern and Central Mediterranean Sea routes and drawing insights from 22 in-depth qualitative interviews with key informants based in Greece and Sicily, this paper seeks to enrich the existing body of knowledge concerning border securitization and the intersection of immigration control with criminal justice, often referred to as 'crimmigration'. The merging of criminal law and migration law prompts an inquiry into whether the prosecution of people who steer the boats carrying unauthorised migrants across the Mediterranean serves to combat human smuggling or rather as an avenue to criminalise migration itself. The article’s central argument posits that ‘captains’, instead of being integral members of organised human smuggling networks, represent only a small aspect of migratory dynamics. They are vulnerable targets whose criminalization is indicative of a wider process of securitization in border control.This conversation with Patricia McCormick discusses her critically acclaimed novelSold(2006), which follows a thirteen-year-old girl trafficked into the sex trade from Nepal to India. Patricia McCormick is an American journalist, writer of crime and realistic fiction, and winner of several awards. McCormick exposes the dark world of sex trafficking using her first-hand experiences with victims and survivors with her journalistic knowledge. This interview, conducted in September 2024, explores McCormick’s narrative techniques, her approach to depicting the trauma of sexual violence, memory as a healing component, and the ethical dilemmas she navigates in writing about sensitive topics. It reveals insights into McCormick’s background research and creative process, and the challenges in striking a balance between the brutal realities of sex trafficking and the need to offer hope. The paper addresses the gaps in existing research by providing first-hand insights into the author’s approach, thereby offering a viewpoint on the nexus of literature, the experience of sexual violence, and social justice, highlighting howSoldcontributes to contemporary discourses about the representation of trauma in literature. In summation, the conversation speaks to the relevance ofSoldin literary, societal, and cultural contexts, highlighting its role in raising awareness and fostering empathy among young adult readers.Maintaining personal wellbeing is essential for an effective pandemic response due to its multifaceted impacts on various aspects of society. This study aimed to evaluate personal wellbeing during pandemic response and investigate the effects of built environment in neighborhoods, risk communication, and health indicators. A cross-sectional survey design was adopted. A sample with 5458 participants was collected in Hong Kong through a self-administered online survey. Personal Wellbeing Index- Adult (PWI-A) was adopted to measure personal wellbeing. This study indicated a more than 20% decrease in personal wellbeing among Hong Kong residents during the pandemic, particularly impacting future security, personal safety, and living standards. Positive influences on wellbeing included more open spaces, using more traditional information channels, seeking reliable media sources, and confidence in information seeking. Conversely, wellbeing was negatively affected by a higher percentage of public residential areas, using more new information channels, increased social media time, smoking habits and chronic health conditions. These findings provide critical insights into the diverse impacts of the pandemic on individuals and communities. They guide targeted interventions and contribute to building resilience against future crises.Family business dominates the Indian corporate landscape, reflecting the country’s strong familial culture. While sustainability in family business is a growing research area, its understanding in the Indian context remains limited. This study aims to investigate the factors contributing to family business sustainability in India and examines the relationships among these factors. Employing a qualitative approach, this research analyzes multiple case studies from Gujarat and Rajasthan. Data was collected through in-depth interviews with family business owners and successors and analyzed using content analysis. The findings reveal five key factors contributing to family business sustainability: succession planning, strategic diversification and expansion, innovation and adaptability, mentorship and knowledge transfer, and competitive advantage. A conceptual framework illustrates the interconnectedness of these factors, highlighting how succession planning supports knowledge transfer and fosters innovation, while strategic diversification often requires innovative approaches. This research offers valuable insights for family business owners navigating growth and sustainability challenges. It also provides a foundation for policymakers to develop targeted measures supporting family business, which significantly contribute to India’s economy. The study’s originality lies in its focus on the Indian context, offering a nuanced understanding of family business sustainability in a rapidly evolving emerging economy. By exploring the unique characteristics of Indian family businesses, this research contributes to the literature on family business sustainability in diverse cultural contexts.Climate change is undeniably one of the most urgent issues of our era, with consequences that will profoundly shape our lives and the well-being of our families. Already, climate change-related worries impact how individuals plan for the future. Recent literature has investigated how psychological stressors, like concerns about climate change, impact decision-making. Building on this, we utilize the theory of imagined futures to explore how climate change influences the retirement savings behavior of millennials, a demographic often seen as financially unprepared for retirement, and as the first generation to come of age and build a family amidst the climate crisis. Through 50 in-depth interviews, we identify five main themes: climate stress, hopeful horizons, financial planning amidst future uncertainties, embracing the present, and the parenthood effect. These themes encompass a wide range of perspectives on retirement savings behavior in the context of climate change. While some participants see climate change as a reason to save more for an uncertain future, others view the unpredictable nature of climate change as a reason to enjoy their resources now, before environmental challenges make such opportunities less feasible. Drawing from our findings, we offer implications for individuals planning for retirement, financial advisors, and policymakers.This paper investigates whether the adoption of E-learning by firms contributed to offset the decrease in firm-sponsored training during the COVID-19 pandemic. Using a novel firm level survey linked with administrative data on the universe of workers within those firms, I study the role of E-learning in firms’ training activities during the crisis. I find that the COVID-19 pandemic substantially decreased firm-sponsored training by up to 11 percentage points. However, firms’ ability to use E-learning nullifies this negative effect. Furthermore, the differential capabilities of firms to apply E-learning might exacerbate already prevalent inequalities in training opportunities.PurposeThe psychometric properties of the Early Childhood Oral Health Impact Scale (ECOHIS-4D), an oral health-related quality-of-life tool for children, and EuroQol 5D-Young (EQ-5D-Y), a commonly used generic quality-of-life tool for children, were compared across a clinical severity index to determine which tool is better for measuring oral health-related quality of life in children.MethodsDelayed and filled surfaces score (dfs) was calculated for under six-year-old children at the recruitment and one year later. ECOHIS-4D and EQ-5D were filled out on both occasions. The following properties were examined: (i) Content validity by comparing mean utility values using the Wilcoxson Signed Rank Test and Bland Altman Test, (ii) Construct validity (ability to discriminate between groups of different clinical severity) by examining effect size between severity groups (iii) Responsiveness (for changes in health status) using floor and ceiling effect, standard response mean and linear regression (iv) Correlation between the utilities and dfs.ResultsRespectively, 287 and 189 children were examined at the baseline and follow-up. Mean utility estimates from the tools were significantly different. All items of EQ-5D-Y showed high ceiling effects compared to items of ECOHIS-4D. Only the utility scores of ECOHIS-4D showed a significant association with the dfs score (β=-0.003, 95%CI=-0.004 to -0.002) in the linear regression models. Utility values form ECOHIS-4D, but not EQ-5D-Y correlated with the dfs (spearman’s r=-0.33, 95%CI -0.43 to -0.23).ConclusionECOHIS-4D performs better than EQ-5D-Y in assessing young children’s oral health-related quality of life.Recently, parties that are run by and for ethnic minority citizens with a migration background have become more prominent. They can be considered a manifestation of ethnic political segregation. A key example of such a party is DENK in the Netherlands. So far, the explanatory literature has focused on how programmatic considerations drives voting for these parties. Other factors, such as the role of social networks in mobilization, have received limited testing and limited exploration in more detail. Furthermore, the literature on social networks is mainly based on majority populations. To inform our understanding of the role of social networks in voting (in general but also particularly among ethnic minority communities and for ethnic minority interest parties) this paper analyzes the voting behavior for DENK focusing on the role of personal, online and religious networks. The paper uses both qualitative interviews (with bicultural youth in the third largest city of the Netherlands in 2022) and quantitative surveys (the 2021 Dutch Ethnic Minority Electoral Study). Our analysis points to the importance of religious and personal networks for voting for DENK, whereas online networks appear to be less relevant.Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are the leading cause of death in the United States and may be prevented through improved working conditions. The United States does not guarantee paid sick leave (PSL) at the federal level. We used quasi-experimental event study methods to examine the relationship between state-level PSL policies and county-level CVD mortality among working-age adults aged 15 to 64 over time (2008 to 2019). We examined the annual CVD mortality rates in 1054 counties from all 50 states and Washington D.C.. In the Northeastern region of the United States, there were drops in the CVD mortality rate in all years after PSL was adopted. We found no effect of PSL in the Western United States with a strong presence of pretreatment effects, making the results for that region uninterpretable. Our results support the use of state-level PSL policies to reduce county-level CVD mortality rates in the Northeastern United States.This paper explores the health impacts and coping strategies for dealing with extreme indoor temperatures among vulnerable urban communities in Sekondi-Takoradi, Ghana. It examines the groups most affected, key vulnerability factors, and the health impacts of extreme temperatures, along with residents’ adaptation strategies. Data were gathered through surveys, focus group discussions, participants’ observations, and expert interviews. The findings reveal that extreme indoor temperatures lead to health challenges such as heat stress, rashes, dehydration, dizziness, skin irritation, and exacerbated respiratory conditions. Children, the elderly, and pregnant women are particularly vulnerable due to their limited physiological and socio-economic resilience. Although natural ventilation and electric fans are commonly used coping strategies, power outages and high electricity costs limit their effectiveness. The paper emphasizes the need for a multi-dimensional approach to improve housing infrastructure, develop affordable cooling technologies, and incorporate green spaces into urban housing. It also underscores the importance of inclusive strategies to address vulnerability factors and strengthen resilience among vulnerable populations, offering insights into the long-term health and socio-economic consequences of extreme temperatures.For over two decades, researchers have called for strength-based perspectives in socialization research. To date, it is unclear how well other researchers have answered that call. The current study systematically reviewed studies published since 2010 that focused on observed behaviors of parents living in the United States during play interactions with their young child. A total of 47 studies met final inclusion criteria. Methodological information for each study (i.e., ethnic-racial or cultural group inclusion, proportion of white versus people of color) were documented. Additionally, each study was coded based on the negative-, positive-, or neutral-lens used in the study framework or findings. These study features were analyzed to determine 1) if researchers had adopted a positive lens, and 2) if there were certain characteristics of studies that did. Overall, roughly 50% of reviewed studies used a positive- or strength-based lens. We found that when researchers did not include a white comparison group, there was a higher likelihood of positive framing. These findings indicate there is still room for improvement in a more unified adoption of strength-based research.PurposeFatigue is the most prevalent symptom across cancer types. To support clinicians in providing fatigue-related supportive care, this study aims to develop and compare models predicting clinically relevant fatigue (CRF) occurring between two and three years after diagnosis, and to assess the validity of the best-performing model across diverse cancer populations.MethodsPatients with non-metastatic bladder, colorectal, endometrial, ovarian, or prostate cancer who completed a questionnaire within three months after diagnosis and a subsequent questionnaire between two and three years thereafter, were included. Predictor variables included clinical, socio-demographic, and patient-reported variables. The outcome was CRF (EORTC QLQC30 fatigue ≥ 39). Logistic regression using LASSO selection was compared to more advanced Machine Learning (ML) based models, including Extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), support vector machines (SVM), and artificial neural networks (ANN). Internal–external cross-validation was conducted on the best-performing model.Results3160 patients were included. The logistic regression model had the highest C-statistic (0.77) and balanced accuracy (0.65), both indicating good discrimination between patients with and without CRF. However, sensitivity was low across all models (0.22–0.37). Following internal–external validation, performance across cancer types was consistent (C-statistics 0.73–0.82).ConclusionAlthough the models’ discrimination was good, the low balanced accuracy and poor calibration in the presence of CRF indicates a relatively high likelihood of underdiagnosis of future CRF. Yet, the clinical applicability of the model remains uncertain. The logistic regression performed better than the ML-based models and was robust across cohorts, suggesting an advantage of simpler models to predict CRF.Local political news is losing consumers over the past decade at a faster rate than other political media, while online news consumption is growing. Previous research shows that local news can slow polarization, encourage political participation, and reduce government and business corruption, but not whether changes over time can affect political attitudes. Is this consequential shift in the media environment associated with changes in Americans’ perceptions of electoral integrity and their system of government? We use a three-wave panel survey from 2012 to 2014 to assess the relationship between changes in self-reported news diets and opinions about American elections and democracy. Switching out of local newspapers is associated with a significant decrease in faith in elections but does not appear to influence support for the broader U.S. system of government. We conclude by discussing the implications of declining local and legacy media news use for Americans’ attitudes toward U.S. elections and democracy in the aftermath of the 2020 elections.Internet finance is a prominent sector within the digital finance industry, presenting both opportunities and challenges for individual investors and financial institutions. Using data from the China Household Finance Survey in 2015, 2017, and 2019, this study constructs a three-year balanced panel to empirically analyze the impact of participation in internet financial products on household financial vulnerability. An intermediary effect model is employed to examine the underlying mechanisms. Additionally, regional and age heterogeneity are explored. The study found that internet finance not only significantly reduces household financial vulnerability but also enhances financial distress by improving participants’ financial literacy and capacity. Additionally, participation in internet financial products affects users’ risk attitudes and economic behaviors, increasing their level of concern for the economy, boosting their investment confidence, and improving their investment performance in other financial activities, thereby mitigating household financial vulnerability.Environmental social scientists have demonstrated that one path to caring for nature is spending time appreciating it. This paper asks why spending time in nature leads to this care and proposes connections between knowledge and emotion and the extension of the self as a mechanism for this link. It develops a general theory of care based on these connections between knowledge and emotion and extension of the self. The data come from a five-year ethnography at a nature centre in Toronto, Ontario, involving 50 interviews and over 500 hours in the field. I find that people care because connections between knowledge and emotion create opportunities for the extension of the self. Specifically, nature knowledge parses out pieces of nature – such as protected areas and species – and emotions make these pieces emotionally vibrant. This emotional resonance based on specialized knowledge, in turn, creates opportunities for people to extend their sense of self to emotionally resonant parts of nature. Once people understand parts of nature as an extension of the self, threats to nature can galvanize care, to preserve what has become part of the self.Every person should feel accepted at work. Organizations can signal that all identities are welcomed and protected through affirming factors in their environment, known as identity-safety cues. However, there are also things organizations can do to signal that certain identities are not welcome. Thus, the current study aims to identify the factors that can impact identity safety perceptions among transgender and gender expansive employees of color, as the past literature on transgender and gender expansive identity-safety cues predominately includes White-majority samples. This study analyzes the intersection of marginalized racial/ethnic and gender identities, and how these combined identities impact the perceptions of identity safety. Researchers conducted 21 semi-structured interviews through Zoom, which were analyzed by hand and through Dedoose software using reflexive thematic analysis. Results found that minimal, partial, or incomplete identity support may signalsomeidentity safety, but the ideal inclusion is support for all identities, and the intersection of those identities. Indeed, limited identity support, insufficient organizational systems, performativity, and discrimination can restrict perceptions of identity safety, while interpersonal support, intersectional representation, and inclusive organizational policies can signal identity safety. Overall, results indicated that it is not sufficient for organizations to signal identity safety for one identity, or for each identity separately; but rather, intersectional support is needed to allow transgender and gender expansive employees of color to feel safe at work.This article explores the relationship between public (i.e. government-led) and private (i.e. industry-led) forms of lobby regulation, by inquiring over the conditions that render a mix between these two regulatory forms more likely. Drawing on the governance of professions scholarship, it presents a theoretically informed comparison between two jurisdictions—the US (federal level) and the EU (supranational level)—where the public regulation of lobbying is built on different models, namely a command-and-control model based on legally binding rules in the US and a cooperative model based on incentives and rewards in the EU. Findings show that, although formal public–private regulatory mixes are not present in either jurisdiction, the EU regulators have hewn closer to this arrangement by coopting lobbyists’ professional associations as semi-permanent but unofficial governance ‘allies’. This outcome is due to an amalgam of factors, chief among which is the severity of political scandals involving lobbyists, which affects policymakers’ reputational incentives for framing the public regulation of lobbying as a punitive or cooperative intervention. Methodologically, the article uses a combination of documentary analysis and expert interviews with lobby practitioners and public regulators on both sides of the Atlantic.This study examined the effect of a shared reading routine on the geometry vocabulary knowledge of four preschool children at risk for language delays. Literacy-based interventions can be used to teach vocabulary for children at risk for language delays, incorporating interactive questioning techniques and explicit definitions. Children were taught geometry vocabulary, specifically attributes (i.e., characteristics) of two-dimensional shapes and examples from the storybooks (i.e., contextualized examples) and personal experiences (i.e., decontextualized examples). A dialogic shared reading activity was used with the PEER scaffolding steps and selected question prompts from CROWD with multiple exposures to the target words. This study utilized a single-case, multiple probe across word sets (i.e., tiers) and intervention sessions were delivered one-on-one with each participant. A probe, referred to as a knowledge check, was administered in every session across phases. Each participant improved in some aspects of geometry vocabulary knowledge. Suggestions for future research to build upon this intervention are discussed.The development of self-regulation is critical for children’s positive interactions with others and successful adjustment to school. Using their self-regulation skills, children can adapt their temperamental, emotional, and behavioral reactions to environmental stimuli. Greater self-regulation is advantageous in the classroom, as more regulated children have an easier time with basic behavioral expectations, and are more likely to persist with difficult tasks, work efficiently, and pay attention to instructions. INSIGHTS into Children’s Temperament (INSIGHTS) is a temperament-based intervention that improves kindergarten and first-grade children’s social-emotional development and academic learning. In the current study, we examined the effects of INSIGHTS on rural Midwestern children’s self-regulation development (i.e., attention, inhibitory control), compared to control classrooms. In addition, we explored the effects of children’s baseline self-regulation and the effects of the intervention on children’s developmental trajectories. Students (N= 147) from 61 classrooms were randomly assigned to INSIGHTS or control conditions by school. Children’s self-regulation skills whereas examined at four different times. Multiple regression models were fit, and results suggest that INSIGHTS participants exhibited greater self-regulation at Time 4 as compared to the control group. Additionally, latent growth curve models were used to model linear growth. Results suggest that INSIGHTS participants experienced increased growth rates for attention, inhibitory control, and sustained attention compared to the control group. Our study provides evidence for the positive effects of a social-emotional classroom intervention on the developmental trajectory of children’s self-regulation.The writing process approach is recognized as an effective instructional practice for engaging children in the writing process and developing emerging writing skills. The writing conference is an integral component of the writing process. One-on-one conferencing sessions create differentiated instructional spaces for teachers to respond to the individual needs of learners. Understanding how teachers leverage conferencing sessions to effectively engage and support young learners’ writing remains a limited area of research. This case study documents one experienced teacher’s conferencing practices with 19 first-grade writers. Findings show conferencing conversations worked in an integrated, multidimensional way to support young writers. Conferencing dimensions leveraged children’s funds of knowledge, questioning and affirming statements, and writers’ craft components to nurture relationships and offer feedback aligned with children’s zone of proximal development.This qualitative study examines the experiences and functions of gender among people who do not identify their genders as exclusively either man or woman (e.g., genderfluid, nonconforming, agender, genderqueer, multigender, nonbinary people). In this paper, we use the term “not-binary” as an inclusive term that refers to these gender identities categorically. Semi-structured interviews with 17 participants living in the U.S. focused on meanings and functions of gender; processes of navigating intrapersonal, interpersonal, and sociopolitical experiences; and intersectional identities. Responses were analyzed using critical-constructivist grounded theory method (Levitt in Essentials of critical-constructivist grounded theory research, American Psychological Association, 2021). Findings revealed that participants intentionally engaged in processes of gender exploration, contestation, and transformation to deliberately challenge and reshape their own conceptualization of gender and that of others. Participants shared the meanings of their identities and pronouns for expressing their sense of self, and how they wished others to interact with them, as well as the complications of language for expressing genders that can be fluid and changing. In addition, participants conveyed the experience of having their gender identities politicized and their rights contested on the national stage. Expanding the transnormative narrative that focuses on gender dysphoria, participants highlighted affirming community and positive and euphoric gender experiences that supported them to engage in resistance to oppressive forces. These findings underscore the importance of education on not-binary experiences, the provision of gender affirming care, and the correction of public misinformation for the well-being of non-binary individuals.Persons deemed a danger to themselves, others, or gravely disabled may receive involuntary psychiatric commitment if family, other residents, law enforcement, or clinicians initiate this process. On September 30, 2005, a Danish newspaper published cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad. This publication led to the worst foreign policy crisis in Denmark since World War II. Whereas protests within Denmark against the cartoon remained peaceful, this cartoon controversy—including the attacks on four Danish embassies outside of Denmark—may have reduced societal tolerance for threatening or deviant behavior among non-Western immigrants. We applied Box-Jenkins interrupted time-series methods to test whether this cartoon controversy coincided with greater than expected counts of new involuntary psychiatric commitments among non-Western immigrants. The analytic period spans 48 quarters from January 1995 to December 2006. Findings support the hypothesis in that new involuntary psychiatric commitments rose 43% during the controversy (p<.01). Changes in help-seeking overall for mental health services do not appear to account for this rise in new involuntary commitments. Population-wide controversies may lower societal tolerance for behavior deemed deviant—and in this case, specifically among non-Western immigrants.Even though young Hispanic children have experienced a high net undercount in the past three U.S. Censuses, we know very little about what explains the undercount. We examine how every state experienced the undercount in 2010 and 2020. We also investigate the association of state-level factors grouped into six domains—racial/ethnic and immigrant composition; political affiliation and immigrant policy climate; housing; family structure and living arrangements; socioeconomic status; and census response/return rates—with the net coverage rate of Hispanic children under age five in the 2010 and 2020 Census. We find that the number of states undercounting young Hispanics increased in one decade, and the undercount worsened in three-fifths of states. We also find that racial/ethnic and immigrant composition, housing, and children’s living arrangements have the strongest associations with the undercount of young Hispanic children in both censuses. The size of states’ Hispanic, foreign-born, and noncitizen populations was positively associated with the 2020 undercount, particularly in states where these groups account for a small proportion of the population. However, the association flattened as the proportion of these groups increased. States with smaller shares of these populations tended to have the most restrictive immigration policies in 2020. Housing characteristics and children’s living arrangements consistently influenced the undercount in both censuses. Lastly, language barriers contributed to the 2020 undercount of young Hispanic children. By identifying factors related to higher undercounts of young Hispanic children, this study builds a knowledge base that could result in a more accurate count of young children in the 2030 Census.Based on some of Erik H. Erikson’s autobiographical references, the author reflects on Erikson’s relationship with his mother, Karla Abrahamsen Homburger. The author then introduces his mother, María Guadalupe Mejía Herrera, and recounts some of the “beautiful flowers” in her garden, notably supporting the author’s vocational journey. The author analyzes how theological seminaries are akin to Erikson’s concept of psychosocial moratorium. He concludes by offering a few recommendations to accompany care seekers as they mourn the death of a parenting person.Historically, religion and nationalism were opposing forces in many countries. Recently, however, they began to converge as part of rising populist movements globally. In the Muslim world, the partnership between Islamists and nationalists has become evident in several important countries such as Turkey, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Iran, and Malaysia. This merging of Islamism and populist nationalism in the last decade signifies a third period in the Muslim world, following the era of secularist domination (1920s–1970s) and the era of Islamization (1970s–2010s). Some Islamic conservatives might regard the unification of religious and nationalist forces as beneficial to their conservative agenda. Nonetheless, this comes at the high cost of discrimination against Muslim minorities in several countries, such as India, Israel, the United States, and France. Beyond Muslim-majority countries and Muslim minorities, the global trend of advancing a religious-nationalist agenda threatens minority rights. This trend poses a major challenge to democracy, equal citizenship, and minority rights worldwide.This study aimed to evaluate the role of neuroinflammation in neuronal and glial cells in the pathophysiology of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) through different biomarkers.S100-B and VILIP-1 levels of patients diagnosed with MDD were evaluated before and after antidepressant treatment. A total of 65 patients diagnosed with MDD and 69 healthy controls were included. Serum levels of S100B and VILIP-1 were measured at the time of diagnosis and after eight weeks antidepressant treatment and compared with healthy controls. Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) and the Clinical Global Impression Scale (CGI) were applied to assess the severity of depression. In our study, although serum S100B levels were higher in patients before treatment compared to healthy controls, this difference was not statistically significant. Regarding VILIP-1 levels, there was no statistically significant difference between patients and healthy controls. A positive and statistically significant correlation was found between S100B and VILIP-1 levels in MDD group before the treatment. At the eighth week of treatment, a statistically significant positive correlation was also found between S100B and VILIP-1 levels. Our research is the first study to evaluate MDD through two separate biomarkers specific to glial and neuronal cells.The fact that S100B and VILIP-1 levels showed significant correlations in patients diagnosed with MDD both before and after treatment suggests that they may play a shared role in the pathophysiology of the disorder. The correlation between S100B and VILIP-1 may serve as a guide in understanding the pathophysiology of the disorder and in identifying new drug development targets.Adolescents may be exposed to online content depicting substance use, raising the question of how exposure to others’ online substance use content relates to one’s own use. Additionally, it is of interest to explore how parental restrictive (i.e., media content restriction) and active mediation (i.e., media content discussion) may relate to links between online substance use exposure and substance use. In a sample of 1017 U.S. adolescents (55% female; T1Mage= 15.04), this longitudinal study examined links between exposure to peers’ online postings about substances and adolescents’ own alcohol, marijuana, cigarette, and e-cigarette use two years later. Adolescents’ Time 1 exposure to peers’ online substance postings was generally associated with greater Time 2 marijuana use, alcohol use, and, to some extent, e-cigarette use. Greater Time 1 cigarette use was associated withlowerTime 2 exposure to peers’ online substance postings. Time 1 parent-reported restrictive mediation was associated with lower Time 2 exposure to online postings, but mediation did not buffer associations between exposure and use. Intervention and prevention efforts should be geared towards targeting risky content adolescents are exposed to online, and what parenting behaviors may be effective in attenuating associations between online substance exposure and use.In many Western countries, the ideology of intensive parenting has gained prominence in the discourse of experts, policymakers, and within popular culture. This ideology emphasizes deep parental involvement in emotional, physical, and financial aspects (Lee et al.,2014). Meeting these demanding standards can exert significant pressure on parents, especially on mothers often considered as the primary caregiver. Moreover, these pressures may prompt parents to be highly, and potentially overly, involved in their children’s lives. Using data from 146 parent dyads (N = 292 parents; Mage= 47.57 years) of Swiss adolescents, the study explores parental perceptions of pressure to be a perfect parent and its association with one positive (responsiveness) and two negative types of involvement (overprotection and overvaluation). Thereby, we estimated Actor-Partner Interdependence Models (APIM) to examine mutual influences between mothers and fathers. The results indicated that mothers reported experiencing significantly more pressure than fathers. We found evidence for a positive association between perceptions of pressure and parental overprotection among both parents. The results also showed that there was a significant association between feelings of pressure and overvaluation, but only among fathers. Associations between pressure and responsiveness were not significant, and no significant partner effects were observed in any of the models. In conclusion, mothers particularly face heightened pressure to be perfect parents, but both parents may adapt their parenting strategies in response to perceived pressure to be perfect as a parent. These findings highlight the potential issues associated with societal pressures on parents and their impact on parenting behavior.The home literacy environment (HLE) plays an important role in children’s early literacy learning. Texting programs are an increasing feature of family literacy interventions that support parent engagement in their children’s learning. Unlike face-to-face interventions, texting programs can offer sustained parental support at low cost and large scale. Messages can be translated into other languages, saved and shared, thus potentially widening the influence on children’s HLEs. Most early literacy texting programs target families from disadvantaged communities, yet research suggests all families may benefit from guidance on supporting their children’s early literacy. This study examined the receptiveness of a universal early literacy texting program, Kindytxt, by parents of kindergarten children from low, medium and high socioeconomic communities. Kindytxt was developed as a component of a universal book gifting program that uses a library-school model of program delivery and has statewide reach. Parents received 90 texts over 30 weeks and were invited to provide feedback via SMS at several intervals. Non-parametric tests were used to compare parent responses based on community-level socioeconomic status. Similarly high levels of parental support were evident across all socioeconomic strata. We argue that a universal approach can avoid the stigma and potentially lower uptake of programs that target disadvantaged families. Moreover, the Kindytxt cooperative delivery model allows targeted strategies to be incorporated within the universal program. Teachers and librarians can proactively bolster recruitment to the texting program and support parents to differentiate the literacy activities to suit their child’s cultural context and level of literacy development.Non-take-up of welfare schemes is a key concern of policy effectiveness. Building on studies that have shown the low take-up of minimum income schemes, our case study of Ireland’s Working Family Payment is the first to analyse non-take-up of an in-work benefit and its determinants with a special focus on labour market factors. Based on EU-SILC (2014–2019) we estimate a non-take-up rate between 63 and 76%, which poses a major obstacle for effective poverty prevention. Moreover, we stress that non-take-up of in-work benefits differs to minimum income schemes. We provide new evidence on how labour market characteristics play an important role in explaining non-take-up, especially self-employment and the interaction with unemployment benefits. Benefit erosion is a key factor in declining eligibility, which should be addressed by indexing wages and prices. Furthermore, we propose policy reforms around automatic enrolment or tax credits to mitigate non-take-up and alleviate in-work poverty.ObjectiveThis article visualises money laundering, a crime spanning hundreds of different actors, methods and value instruments, as a network. Possible combinations of money laundering actions and schemes are analysed through a holistic visualisation to draw policy-relevant insights into their prevention.MethodsA prior scoping review of money laundering typologies identified 793 activities that a money launderer can take to obfuscate illicit funds. These actions form the basis of a directed network graph showcasing all possible combinations of money laundering schemes. Three network-based analyses are then conducted: (1) centrality analysis, to determine the most ‘important’ money laundering actions as priorities for prevention, (2) resilience analysis to simulate iterative interventions against different money laundering actions to assess their impact on the wider network and (3) subgroup analysis to identify groups of commonly undertaken schemes (i.e. “typologies”).ResultsMoney laundering is found to be a highly resilient process crime, with specific interventions often unable to prevent schemes from displacing to alternative activities to launder their funds. However, benefits of tactically displacing criminals to more easily detectable schemes are discussed. The formulation of money laundering typologies through more empirically robust processes is also motivated, in place of compartmentalised reports that remain the current standard practice.ConclusionsNetwork analysis is motivated as an effective way of visualising complex process crimes with vast criminal opportunities such as money laundering, allowing policy-relevant insights to be drawn in terms of resource-allocation, strategy and prioritisation. Theoretical and policy implications of the current study are discussed in the context of crime scientific theories.Young children are natural scientists, exploring the world around them from infancy. While early childhood classrooms abound in opportunities to integrate Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM), early educators need to intentionally design and implement accessible learning experiences so that all children can develop STEM knowledge and skills. As such, it is essential to understand teachers’ perspectives toward STEM instruction in their everyday classroom practice. Guided by the integrated STEM framework, we examined eight preschool teachers’ STEM teaching practices through in-depth interviews. We present themes related to teachers’ implementation of transdisciplinary, interdisciplinary, and independent exploratory STEM teaching approaches, their observations of both STEM-specific and non-STEM-specific learning outcomes, strategies teachers employed to create equitable and inclusive STEM learning experiences, and their orientation and confidence toward teaching STEM. This study contributes to the literature by exploring the realities of integrated STEM teaching and learning in everyday preschool settings and offering insights into better supporting teachers in this area.In the United States, populations of Latino individuals tend to have better mortality outcomes than socioeconomically similar racial and ethnic comparators; this has been termed the “Latino Paradox”. However, advantages from the Latino paradox seem to fade and may be susceptible to other factors (like the COVID-19 pandemic). Quality primary care may improve mortality, but the effect of the intersection of all of these factors in Latino patients is uncertain. There is burgeoning evidence that Latino patients may have more robust utilization of high value primary care services, especially when accessible in a community-oriented fashion. This utilization may become less robust, especially in services that require a more integrated delivery system, as individuals and generations spend more time in the United States. Primary care research may provide additional insights into the underpinnings of the Latino paradox and may complement the public health foundation that has undergirded work on the paradox in the last few decades. Investments in primary care infrastructure and research may be beneficial to the health of Latinos in the United States, and incorporating the needs of this diverse population into primary care system design at scale may pay large dividends for our societal health.PurposePreference-based summary scores are used to quantify values, differences, and changes in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) that can be used for cost-effectiveness analyses. The PROMIS-Preference (PROPr) measure is a preference-based summary score comprised of 7 PROMIS domains. The PROMIS-16 is a new PROMIS profile instrument. We evaluated the measurement properties of PROPr generated from the widely used PROMIS-29 + 2 compared with the PROMIS-16.MethodsWe performed a secondary analysis of data from an online survey of the general US population, with a longitudinal subsample who reported back pain. The survey included both the PROMIS-16 and the PROMIS-29 + 2 profiles. PROPr scores were calculated from each profile and compared by the distribution of scores, overall mean scores, product-moment correlations with pain measure scores (Oswestry Disability Index, Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire, Pain Intensity, Interference with Enjoyment of Life, Interference with General Activity Scale, and Graded Chronic Pain Scale), and difference in mean scores in subgroups with 13 chronic health conditions (Cohen’s d).ResultsOf the 4,115 participants in the baseline survey, 1,533 with any reported back pain were invited for the 6-month follow-up survey and 1,256 completed it. At baseline, the overall mean (SD) PROPr score was 0.532 (0.240) from PROMIS-16 and 0.535 (0.250) from PROMIS 29 + 2. At both time points, the correlations of PROPr scores with physical and mental health summary scores from the PROMIS-29 and 4 pain scales were within 0.01 between profiles. Using subgroups with chronic health conditions and comparing between profiles, Cohen’s d estimates of the difference in effect size were small (< 0.2).ConclusionPROPr scores from the 16-item PROMIS profile measure are similar to PROPr scores from the longer PROMIS-29 + 2.Studies regarding dysgraphia, an impairment in writing, have been receiving more attention in recent research. Most studies have broadly discussed the multiple cognitive mechanisms involved in writing and its disruption leading to dysgraphia. However, little attention has been paid to the involvement of different memory systems integral to writing and its disruption in individuals with dysgraphia. Orthographic long-term memory and orthographic working memory are the two memory systems predominantly involved in the production of written expressions, and the subsequent interruption of these memory systems often leads to varied deficit profiles of dysgraphia. These disruptions have resulted from damage in the brain caused by neural injuries, neurological disorders, or epigenetic factors. The existing studies did not probe into the nuances of the disruptions of these two memory systems in dysgraphia and associated neural pathways. In order to fill this gap, the review attempts to provide a comprehensive account of dysgraphia and its association with orthographic long-term memory and orthographic working memory by comparing and contrasting their workings and patterns of disruption in the deficit profiles of dysgraphia by probing into the underlying neural correlates. Such a detailed account brings insights into pertinent intervention strategies for improving memory systems and dysgraphia. It also helps identify the limitations of the existing intervention methods like CART, ACT, or Spell-Study-Spell, leading to the proposal of improvised neuro-targeted interventions for dysgraphia.Social role theory (Eagly,1987) posits that gender differences in career interests are consistent with normative social role expectations, with men assuming more agentic roles and women assuming more communal roles. To account for historical shifts in occupations and social roles, this mixed-methods study re-examines gender differences in career interests and motivations with a sample of 501 eighth graders (52% girls; 40% White) from the U.S. Findings indicated that boys and girls had distinct career interests and motivations. Despite preferring careers that were generally dominated by their own gender, students perceived their chosen career as being more gender balanced than U.S. labor force statistics indicate. This misperception might be the result of a preference for less stereotypical occupations, and may reflect a unique characteristic of the next-generation workforce. In addition, boys were more likely than girls to indicate that salary factored into their career choice; whereas girls were more likely than boys to indicate that a desire for helping others or working with children motivated their career choice, consistent with social role theory. Some motivational factors that are typically linked with young adult career preferences were not strong factors in younger adolescents’ career interests, perhaps due to the developmental status of participants or a generational shift in values. A generational shift in values may account for the presence of a relatively understudied motivational factor, occupation creativity, which was important for both boys and girls. Addressing gender differences in the motivations and goals that affect career interests may both alleviate workforce shortages and achieve a less gender segregated work environment.Religion can fulfill both positive and negative functions in coping with stress. There is a lack of research regarding the mechanism underlying the link between religious coping and mental health. The purpose of this study was to verify how religious coping is related to mental health. Two indirect mechanisms were tested for finding meaning in life and emotional regulation. The study was conducted with 115 students from Poland. According to the results, both positive and negative religious coping were indirectly related to hopelessness through finding meaning in life and affectivity. More frequent use of negative religious coping was positively related to the intensity of negative affect and problems with finding meaning in life, which, in turn, led to a higher level of hopelessness. Meanwhile, more frequent use of positive religious coping was correlated with a greater intensity of positive effect and supported individuals in finding meaning in life. Finding meaning in life was related to a lower level of hopelessness, but positive affect was not correlated with hopelessness. The research confirmed the role played by finding meaning in life and affectivity within the mechanism underlying the link between religious coping and hopelessness. In conclusion, theoretical and practical implications are presented.Based on in-depth interviews with female cadets, this article explores what it is like to be a young military woman in the 2020s. Focusing on the Swedish Armed Forces this study takes its point of departure in minority group processes examined from a gender perspective. How do young military women navigate challenges specific to their gendered positionalities, and to what extent are coping strategies needed in this male-dominated environment? The article concludes that despite an increased focus on gender equality and a more welcoming attitude to military women, persistent norms of masculinity remain challenging for women in military settings. At the same time, young military women may have found new ways of navigating the burden of visibility that women in minority often struggle with. For example, while gendered performance pressure remains a reality, strategies of disassociating oneself from other women, in line with previous theorising, do not appear to be a dominant coping strategy. This generation of women entered the military under different circumstances than those who paved the way. The reassurance of being strategically prioritised may have inspired new ways of navigating a fear of visibility, in contrast with previous generations who often rejected the idea of female networks within the organisation. Young military women of today might therefore be more inclined to fight structural challenges. Given the gendered challenges military women still face, it remains to be seen whether these forms of gendered empowerment will be enough to retain them.BackgroundWe derived meaningful individual-level change thresholds for worsening in selected patient-reported outcomes version of the common terminology criteria for adverse events (PRO-CTCAE®) items and their composite scores.MethodsWe used two data sources, the PRO-TECT trial (Alliance AFT-39) that collected PRO-CTCAE data from adults with advanced cancer at 26 United States (U.S.) community oncology practices and the PRO-CTCAE validation study that collected PRO-CTCAE data from adults undergoing chemotherapy or radiation therapy at nine U.S. cancer centers or community oncology practices. Both studies administered selected PRO-CTCAE items and EORTC QLQ-C30 scales. Conceptually, relevant QLQ-C30 domains were used as anchors to estimate meaningful change thresholds for deterioration in corresponding PRO-CTCAE items and their composite scores. Items or composites with ǀρǀ ≥ 0.30 correlation with QLQ-C30 scales were included. Changes in PRO-CTCAE scores and composites were estimated for patients who met or exceeded a 10-point deterioration on the corresponding QLQ-C30 scale. Change scores were computed between baseline and the 3-month timepoint in PRO-TECT, and in the PRO-CTCAE validation study between baseline and a single follow-up visit that occurred between 1 and 7 weeks later. For each PRO-CTCAE item, change scores could range from − 4 to 4; for a composite, change scores could range from − 3 to 3.ResultsChange scores in QLQ-C30 and PRO-CTCAE were available in 406 and 792 patients in PRO-TECT and the validation study, respectively. Across QLQ-C30 scales, the proportion of patients with a 10-point or greater worsening on QLQ-C30 ranged from 15 to 30% in the PRO-TECT data and 13% to 34% in the validation data. Across PRO-CTCAE items, anchor-based meaningful change estimates for deterioration ranged from 0.05 to 0.30 (mean 0.19) in the PRO-TECT data and from 0.19 to 0.53 (mean 0.36) in the validation data. For composites, they ranged from 0.06 to 0.27 (mean 0.17) in the PRO-TECT data and 0.22 to 0.51 (mean 0.37) in the validation data.ConclusionIn both datasets, the minimal meaningful individual-level change threshold for worsening was one point for all items and composite scores.ClinicalTrials.gov:NCT03249090 (AFT-39), NCT02158637 (MC1091)BackgroundQuality of life (QOL) and functional status are two key outcomes for patients with advanced heart failure (HF). We examined the association of eleven symptoms with QOL and functional status impairment in patients with advanced HF.Methods and resultsThis was a retrospective analysis of baseline data from a multi-center, cluster-randomized controlled trial (NCT01459744) which enrolled patients with an implanted cardioverter-defibrillator and advanced HF at high-risk for mortality. Study instruments included the Condensed Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale, the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire QOL subscale, and the number of activities of daily living (ADL) patients had difficulties with. The study included 413 subjects. In generalized linear models which were adjusted for baseline characteristics, the total number of symptoms was significantly associated with worse QOL, as was the presence of each individual symptom, except constipation. Lack of energy demonstrated the strongest negative association with QOL. Similarly, the total number of symptoms was associated with a higher number of ADL difficulties (i.e., worse functional status). The presence of pain, lack of energy and drowsiness was individually associated with more ADL difficulties.ConclusionAmong patients with advanced HF, a higher number of symptoms and specific individual symptoms were associated with worse QOL and functional status.PurposeThis longitudinal study evaluates whether the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement and Information System (PROMIS)-16 domains capture average change over time comparable to the PROMIS-29 + 2 and have similar associations with change in overall health rating and two disability indices.MethodsData were collected using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months among individuals reporting chronic low back pain. The analytic sample includes respondents who completed baseline and at least one follow-up assessment (N= 1137). We estimated latent growth models for eight PROMIS domains and compared growth parameters between the PROMIS-16 and PROMIS 29 + 2 with a z-test. Additionally, for each domain, random intercept and slope scores for individuals were computed for the PROMIS-29 + 2 and PROMIS-16 and correlated to estimate concordance. Using growth parameters for physical function and pain interference, we predicted average change in the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ), the overall health rating, and compared regression coefficients between the PROMIS-16 and PROMIS 29 + 2.ResultsAll growth models fit the data well. Intercept and slope parameters were statistically comparable (p’s > 0.05) in magnitude across all domains between the PROMIS-16 and PROMIS-29 + 2. Correlations between random intercept and slope scores for individuals across domains were high. Additionally, the regression coefficients between slopes for pain interference and physical function and ODI, RMDQ, and overall health rating were statistically comparable (p’s > 0.05) between the PROMIS-16 and PROMIS 29 + 2.ConclusionResults provide between-level support for the longitudinal and predictive validity of the PROMIS-16. Similar average baseline scores and changes over time were observed between PROMIS-16 and PROMIS-29 + 2. Further, average change estimates comparably predicted average change in distal outcomes. This work provides evidence supporting the utility of the PROMIS-16 as a viable, short-profile option for use in clinical and research settings.Social participation (SP) has been shown to positively impact the mental health of family caregivers. However, a key concern for local authorities is understanding how and to what extent living in a neighborhood with high SP can moderate the psychological burden of caregivers. This study aimed to address this issue. We conducted a multilevel analysis using 17-wave longitudinal data from 33,813 individuals (16,416 men and 17,397 women) aged 50–59 years residing in 2,446 neighborhoods in 2005. We examined how neighborhood SP (NSP) moderated the impact of caregiving on caregivers’ psychological distress (PD), defined as a Kessler (K6) score ≥5. We also incorporated individual SP (ISP) and its interaction with NSP. The results revealed an asymmetric moderation effects of high NSP and ISP on the impact of caregiving on PD, with sex differences. For men, high NSP moderated 73.3% (95% confidence interval (CI): 21.3–125.2%) of the impact when it interacted with ISP. Conversely, for women, ISP moderated 31.3% (95% CI: 10.8–51.9%) of the impact when it interacted with high NSP. We obtained similar findings using both the K6 score and a more severe threshold for severe mental disorder (K6 ≥13). These results suggest that high NSP and ISP moderate the psychological impact of caregiving differently for men and women, highlighting the importance of considering the interaction between NSP and ISP when developing policies to support caregivers through enhancing NSP.In recent years, the online scam industry has experienced massive growth in East and Southeast Asia. What used to be scattered operations largely located in apartments, villas, and hotel rooms mostly in Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and the Philippines, began to scale up and move into bigger ‘scam compounds’ hosting dozens of different companies. There is now substantial evidence of thousands of people being deceived and trafficked into scam operations located in these facilities. Many of them fall for fraudulent job advertisements; others are enticed or duped by friends, relatives, or acquaintances; others again have been outright kidnapped. While the media have extensively reported on this new phenomenon, research on the topic remains scarce and misconceptions are common. Drawing from a survey of Chinese victims, complemented by extensive interviews with survivors from China and other countries, this paper aims to move beyond anecdotal reports to present a more systematic assessment of victim backgrounds. In doing so, it makes a case for the need for better, more comprehensive information-sharing to develop a nuanced understanding of the recruitment practices in the sector, which is an essential precondition to deter people from entering the industry and support survivors.Adolescents in Washington state have grown up with parents legally able to purchase and consume cannabis. In this environment, it is important to determine the role parental cannabis use and parental monitoring plays in adolescents’ cannabis-related beliefs and intentions. Data analyses of online survey data collected from 276 Washington state adolescents (out of the 350 surveyed who answered applicable questions) conducted four years after the first recreational cannabis retailers opened in the state, indicated perceived parental cannabis use was associated with youth’s attitudes and intentions to use cannabis. Parental monitoring was associated with adolescents’ attitudes about cannabis. Adolescents’ perceived closeness to mother served as a protective factor for adolescent cannabis use, unless the mother used cannabis. Instead, closeness to mothers who use cannabis served as a risk factor for youths’ pro-cannabis attitudes and intentions to use cannabis. Overall, the results of the current study indicate that parents serve as a social context from which adolescents learn about cannabis use and its consequences. Implications are discussed in the article.Previous research has demonstrated a relationship between job satisfaction and subjective well-being, particularly life satisfaction, which aligns with the spillover theory. Moreover, according to the core self-evaluations theory, core self-evaluations are hypothesized to explain the relationship between job and subjective well-being and to have a causal role in job satisfaction and subjective well-being. The aim of the current study was (1) to test these predictions of self-evaluations theory and (2) to investigate the relationship between job satisfaction and subjective well-being. Data from two national, representative longitudinal studies (i.e., the GESIS Panel study and the Swiss Household Panel study) were used. The participants consisted of approximately 20,000 individuals from Switzerland (Swiss Household Panel study) and 5,000 individuals from Germany (GESIS Panel study). A separate series of random intercept cross-lagged panel models revealed that job satisfaction and subjective well-being (except for happiness) were not reciprocally related across all study waves. Moreover, the relationship between job satisfaction and subjective well-being appears to reflect a trait-like property. Finally, core self-evaluations did not account for any part of the relationship between job and subjective well-being, and there was limited evidence that core self-evaluations can predict later subjective well-being. These results provide mixed support for both spillover and segmentation theories, as well as for some predictions of self-evaluations theory.The social ecological model illustrates the complex relationships between a person and their environment. Reviews of the literature highlight a need to increase our understanding of how social processes affect youth across multiple environmental contexts. We use data from the Future of Families and Child Wellbeing Study to test social connections and observant adults in three contexts: neighborhood, school and family; as predictors of wellbeing, and internalizing and externalizing behaviors in a sample of youth. Our findings suggests that social connections in the neighborhood, school, and family are associated with positive youth outcomes. Observant adults in the school and family are associated with greater wellbeing and fewer externalizing symptoms whereas observant adults in the neighborhood was not associated with youth outcomes. These findings highlight the importance of developing spaces where youth feel included, and the positive impact that observant adults in proximal contexts can have on youth. Understanding how social processes operate across contexts can help practitioners create synergy across the most salient contexts that affect youth.Enhancing the support for inclusive finance in county economies is crucial in achieving the strategic goal of building financial power. Drawing upon the theoretical lens of county-level inclusive financial accessibility, this study examines the effect of the migration experience (ME) of county socialites on their risky financial assets investment (FAI) and the underlying mechanisms. We utilize data sourced from the County Consumption Survey, a nationwide effort by the Department of Sociology of Tsinghua University and the 58 Tongzhen Research Group. Our findings reveal that the ME of county socialites significantly boosts their likelihood of engaging in financial markets. Furthermore, housing inequality factors, such as housing property rights and housing loans, play a moderating role in the impact of individual ME on their FAI. Additionally, the financial concept has a masking effect rather than a mediating effect on the path of the ME affecting FAI. Notably, the promotion effect of ME displays heterogeneity. Specifically, ME has a stronger positive effect on FAI among college-educated groups, members of the Communist Party of China (CPC), and urban hukou residents than on those who have not completed college education, non-CPC members and rural hukou households. In light of these findings, we propose policy recommendations to optimize the distribution of financial services, adjust the housing equality policy, and enhance inclusive financial literacy.Programming is needed to strengthen the single mother-adolescent daughter relationship, focusing on needs of both mothers and daughters beyond risk behaviors. In the current study, we assessed for active ingredients of a unique program developed for Black single mothers and their adolescent daughters (12–17 years old)–Building Our Nation’s Daughters (BOND). Our team interviewed five Black single mothers (35–37 years old) and five Black adolescent daughters (12–15 years old) who were involved in BOND. Grounded theory informed our analytic approach. Results indicated the group format and perceived benefits from program participation were key factors promoting BOND retention for mothers and daughters. For mothers alone, feeling a sense of sisterhood with other mothers further promoted their retention. And exercises and activities, coping skills, and other key factors (e.g., other support, food) were the key active ingredients influencing BOND satisfaction. For daughters alone, emotion recognition and regulation skills promoted satisfaction. The unique structure of BOND programming improved Black mother-daughter relationships through primarily parallel factors for mothers and daughters. Crucial logistic items are noted in the discussion for others endeavoring to serve this population.Immigration policy, particularly regarding migrants crossing the US-Mexico border, has been a highly debated topic for years. There is a continued debate on how to maintain national security while protecting the health and dignity of migrants. In this commentary, we argue that the Biden Administration’s “Proclamation on Securing the Border” issued on June 4, 2024, alongside the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Interim Final Rule, poses a significant threat to the health of migrants seeking asylum at the US-Mexico border by forcing more migrants to wait in encampments in border towns. Specifically, migrants are more likely to face increased exposure to disease, mental health effects, and violence as a result of this proclamation. We call for structural policy reform and propose several alternative policies that can be enacted at the regional and national levels to help maintain the health and dignity of migrants while still prioritizing border security.The present study uses latent class analysis to explore patterns of family communication about health-related topics during early adolescence. Directed parent–child communication is important for early adolescents to make informed health risk decisions, yet not all families discuss all health issues, especially surrounding sensitive topics such as sex and substance use. Participants were 182 seventh-grade students from a rural, low-income county in the Southeastern U.S. (Mage = 12; 49% girls, 48% boys, 2% transgender or another gender; 49% lower socioeconomic status; 34% Latine, 33% White, 23% Black/African American, 2% Asian, 8% another race/ethnicity). Participants self-reported if they had ever discussed 10 health risk topics with their parents: alcohol, cigarettes, e-cigarettes/vaping, marijuana, sex, sexting, condoms/birth control, bullying, sleep, and time spent online. Four latent classes emerged: those who were unlikely to have discussed any topics (“Low—All Topics”, 38.7%); those who were likely to have discussed all topics (“High—All Topics”, 25.2%); those whose communication selectively excluded discussions of sex (“Everything but Sex”, 18.1%); and those who selectively excluded discussions of substance use (“Moderate—Low Substance”, 18.1%). Adolescents’ gender and sexual experience were related to class membership; their socioeconomic status and substance use experience were not. Results highlight that health risk family communication patterns are not one-size-fits-all. Understanding pluralistic patterns of parent-child health risk communication can inform interventions to promote effective parent communication.Political (as opposed to professional) election oversight is one area in which the U.S. scores extremely low in measures of election integrity. Meanwhile, rancorous political battles to determine acceptable election procedures and judge when tactics cross the line have become common events. Our work contributes to recent scholarship investigating whether voters prioritize democratic principles or strategically favor electoral procedures that provide partisan advantage. In two survey experiments, we confirm that Americans’ attitudes about antidemocratic election tactics reveal more about which team they are cheering for than they do about whether the tactics are fraudulent. The tendency to engage in partisan motivated reasoning occurs among all partisans, but there are subtle differences as to when citizens will engage in it. Partisan motivated reasoning is more common when actions cause harm and by the partisans that are harmed. Finally, Independents are more impartial, but less likely to call out improper tactics in the aggregate because they often fail to condemn actions by either party.PurposeThis study aimed to develop utility weights for the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLU-C10D, a cancer-specific utility instrument, tailored to the Norwegian and Swedish populations. The utility weights are intended for use in the specific welfare contexts of Norway and Sweden to support more precise healthcare decision-making in cancer treatment and care.MethodsThis cross-sectional study included 1019 Norwegian and 1048 Swedish participants representative in age and gender of the two general populations. Participants completed a discrete choice experiment involving 960 choice sets, each consisting of two EORTC QLU-C10D health states described by the instrument’s domains and the duration of each state. Utility weights were calculated using generalized estimation equation models, and non-monotonic levels were merged to ensure consistent valuation.ResultsIn the Norwegian participants, the largest utility decrements were seen for the domain of physical functioning (decrement of − 0.263 for highest level “very much”), followed by pain (decrement − 0.205 for level “very much”) and role functioning (− 0.139). Among the cancer-specific domains, nausea had the largest utility decrement (− 0.124). In the Swedish participants, the largest utility decrements were also observed for physical functioning (− 0.207 for the response “very much”), followed by pain (− 0.139), role functioning (− 0.133), and nausea (− 0.119). Emotional functioning also exhibited a sizable utility decrement (− 0.115).ConclusionThis study provides the first set of utility weights for the EORTC QLU-C10D specific to Norway and Sweden, reflecting the unique health preferences of these populations. The generated utility decrements can inform cost-utility analyses and optimize resource allocation in cancer care within the Norwegian and Swedish healthcare systems.This study investigates the impact of extended unemployment on the life satisfaction of young adults, focusing on social exclusion and loneliness as mediators, with parental socioeconomic status as a moderator. Youth unemployment poses significant economic, psychological, and social challenges. Despite increased awareness, there is still a research gap in understanding the pathways through which extended unemployment affects well-being, particularly the mechanisms of social exclusion and loneliness, and the role of parental socioeconomic status. Using data from the 2022 Seoul Youth Panel Survey and structural equation modeling, this study found that both social exclusion and loneliness significantly mediate the negative relationship between extended unemployment and life satisfaction. The indirect effect mediating through loneliness is stronger than the effect through social exclusion, emphasizing the importance of addressing emotional well-being. Additionally, different types of unemployment have distinct effects: young adults in informal or part-time employment report higher life satisfaction than those formally unemployed, suggesting that employment type significantly influences well-being outcomes. Parental socioeconomic status reduces the negative impact of unemployment, acting as a socioeconomic buffer reinforcing social inequalities. These findings highlight the complex effects of extended unemployment, underscoring the need to address both social and emotional consequences. Understanding these pathways and moderating factors provides insight into mitigating the broader impacts of youth unemployment on well-being.Work-related psychological health and professional burnout are significant concerns among clergy across various denominations and cultures. This study examines the impact of meaning in life, assessed by the Meaning in Life Questionnaire, and emotional intelligence, assessed by the Schutte Emotional Intelligence Scale, on work-related psychological health among 198 Roman Catholic priests in Indonesia (84 diocesan priests and 114 religious priests). The psychological health of the participants was measured using the two scales of the Francis Burnout Inventory. The results indicated that higher levels of emotional intelligence enhanced work-related psychological health by both reducing negative affect (emotional exhaustion in ministry) and increasing positive affect (satisfaction in ministry). These findings suggest that evaluating emotional intelligence in candidates for ordained ministry and incorporating emotional intelligence training into priesthood formation programs could help reduce the risk of burnout and enhance overall well-being among priests.