Currently, there is growing literature on trauma-informed care and interventions addressing health and mental health problems from this approach. In Latin America, however, literature and intervention are scarce and there is an opportunity for social work to promote community-wide responses. This article aims to diminish this gap by contributing with a case analysis focused on Chile. For this, we present a descriptive narrative case study approach, drawing upon our previous qualitative research projects, literature, and document review with an empirical analysis based on our professional experiences as a team of Chilean social workers, psychologists, and professors with lived experience in mental health. First, we describe these traumatic events, analyze their consequences on the population’s mental health, and delve into the clinical problems associated with the traumatic events described. Then, we approach the mental health system and social work in Chile, discussing the resurgence and strengthening of the social-clinical disciplinary perspective and the gaps in the comprehensive approach to mental health. In our results, we identify opportunities for improvement in the development of trauma-informed interventions. We discuss the lack of awareness, research, and interventions that tackle collective and individual trauma in Chile, identifying the need for mental health first aid in disasters and the need for justice and reparation.
The issue of whether a salient stimulus in the visual field captures attention in a stimulus-driven manner has been debated for several decades. The attentional window account proposed to resolve this issue by claiming that a salient stimulus captures attention and interferes with target processing only when an attentional window is set wide enough to encompass both the target and the salient distractor. By contrast, when a small attentional window is serially shifted among individual stimuli to find a target, no capture is found. Research findings both support and challenge this attentional window account. However, in these studies, the attentional window size was improperly estimated, necessitating a re-evaluation of the account. Here, using a recently developed visual search paradigm, we investigated whether visual stimuli were processed in a parallel or a serial manner. We found significant attentional capture when multiple stimuli were processed in parallel within a large attentional window. By contrast, when a small window had to be serially shifted, no capture was found. We conclude that the attentional window account can be a useful framework to resolve the widespread debate regarding stimulus-driven attentional capture.
Transitioning from kindergartens to elementary schools marks a critical period for young children and children’s school readiness is a strong predictor of their future educational attainment. The purpose of this study was to examine the relations between family socioeconomic status (SES) and Chinese preschoolers’ cognitive and non-cognitive school readiness outcomes and to further explore the moderating role of parental involvement in these relations. A total of 311 five-six years old kindergarteners and their parents living in Shanghai, China participated in the study. Parents reported demographic information and their involvement in children’s education. Children’s school readiness was rated by their teachers based on daily observations. Findings of this study indicated that family SES was positively associated with children’s cognitive school readiness (i.e., communication and general knowledge and language and cognition) but not significantly related to non-cognitive school readiness (i.e., social competence and emotional maturity). Parental involvement moderated the relations between family SES and children’s cognitive and non-cognitive school readiness. In the context of low home-based parental involvement and home-school conferencing, family SES was related to children’s cognitive school readiness, while in the context of high home-based parental involvement and home-school conferencing, family SES was not associated with children’s cognitive readiness. Unexpectedly, family SES was negatively related to children’s social-emotional readiness outcomes when parents displayed high levels of home-based parental involvement. Implications for practice and suggestions for further research were also discussed.
In recent years, video marketing through livestream platforms, such as Tiktok, Kwai and Microblog etc., has become the main way of e-commerce enterprises, particularly in China. Mainly through the strong recommendation of internet celebrities or livestream influences by influencers and followers’ interaction, this marketing model enhances the consumer social presence and increases brand promotion and product sales. Livestreaming helps retailers to build mutual trust between internet influencers and fans in a virtualized internet environment, creating a close and intimate internet community, and ultimately turning fans or followers into customers or potential customers. Building upon self-determination theory and closeness theory, this study attempts to explore the underlying theoretical mechanism between the relationship of social presence and consumer stickiness. The empirical results show that in a virtual shopping environment, the stronger the consumer’s social presence, the stronger the stickiness to the shopping platform. Consumers’ trust level mediates the relationship between social presence and consumer stickiness. Closeness level affects consumer stickiness by regulating the second half of the path of the mediating role of trust level.
The Housing First model is embedded in a supportive housing federal program aimed at reducing homelessness by offering housing vouchers and case management services to chronically unhoused veterans with co-occurring disorders. Despite the successes Housing First programs have achieved with the chronic unhoused population, including veterans, the cycle of homelessness continues to exist in this subgroup. These veterans have significant vulnerabilities, such as severe mental health and addiction histories, that contribute to their housing instability. The case narrative in this paper illustrates the story of a chronically unhoused veteran who cycled through episodes of homelessness due to ongoing substance use and evictions. On the veteran's third entry into a Housing First program, the social worker utilized the transtheoretical model (TTM) to evaluate the veteran's readiness to change and applied motivational interviewing (MI) principles to find a representative payee who would support housing stability, even if the veteran experienced a relapse. This approach can be considered harm reduction in supportive housing. Through the application of MI, the veteran exercised self-efficacy, opted for implementing a protective factor, and experienced long-term stable housing.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, organisations globally shifted into an emergency mode, leading to significant changes in the labour market. In light of these developments, this study sought to examine how the COVID-19 pandemic context influenced employees' evaluations of the different states of work motivation, as outlined in the framework of the Self-Determination Theory. A sample of 243 Portuguese employees completed the Multidimensional Work Motivation Scale (MWMS) at two-time points (before and during the pandemic). Repeated‐measures univariate and multivariate analyses of variance (MANOVA) were used to examine differences in work motivation scores between Time 1 and Time 2, as well to analyse the interaction between time and sociodemographic and work-related variables in the same dimensions. The results showed a positive and significant effect of the COVID-19 pandemic context on the more autonomous states of work motivation, i.e., Identified Regulation and Intrinsic Motivation, and those related to the controlled states of motivation, mainly Extrinsic Material Regulation and Introjected Regulation. In addition, workers without higher education have benefited more in terms of identified regulation throughout the pandemic, suggesting that the pandemic context may have facilitated the internalisation of new values and meaning at work for this group.This two-wave study suggests that the pandemic context acts as a psychological determinant affecting how job resources contribute to fulfilling autonomous motivation. The internal factors driving employees' autonomous motivation are shaped by their perception of the job resources within the wider context. In times of crisis, it is vital to focus on work resources and psychological needs to maintain employee motivation. Organisations must adjust their strategies to offer adequate support and balance demands and resources, especially during crises such as the pandemic.
The coronavirus pandemic posed a major challenge to mental health. Existing evidence shows that COVID-19 is related to poor emotional well-being, particularly among women. However, most work on the subject uses single-country samples, limiting the ability to generalize the disparity or explain it as a function of societal variables. The present study investigates the expression of positive and negative emotions during the pandemic as a function of gender and across 24 countries (N= 49,637). Strong gender differences emerged across countries, with women reporting more negative emotions (anxious, depressed, nervous, exhausted) and less positive emotions (calm, content, relaxed, energetic) than men. The gender gap in positive emotions was significantly wider in countries higher in individualism and narrower in countries higher in power distance. For instance, differences in emotions were larger in Western countries high in individualism, such as the USA, the UK, Italy, and France, and smaller in countries with higher collectivism and power distance, such as China, Malaysia, and South Korea, with a few exceptions like Japan and Brazil. These gender differences across countries were not explained by country-level gender inequalities indicators (GGGI and GII). Interestingly, the national severity of the pandemic, an epidemiological factor, reduced gender differences in positive emotions. These results underscore the importance of considering cultural and national factors when assessing gender differences in well-being.
Team status difference (TSD) refers to the difference in the relative ranking of team members based on their levels of respect, prestige, or influence as perceived by others. Much research on TSD has focused on the functional and dysfunctional effects of TSD at the team level, but few studies have explored the paradoxical impacts of status differences on employees. This study draws on the challenge-hindrance demand model (CHM) and transactional theory of stress to explore when and how TSD is associated with employees’ productive and counterproductive behaviors through distinct job-demand appraisal mechanisms. Further, the moderating role of individual personality traits is considered. Data were collected from 1631 Chinese employees within 108 teams using a three-stage team leader-member matching survey method. Mplus 7.0 was employed for multilevel structural equation model analysis. The results revealed that TSD is positively correlated with employees’ perceived job challenge and subsequent innovative behavior, particularly for those exhibiting a cooperative personality. Conversely, for employees with a competitive personality, TSD leads to increased perceived interpersonal conflict and subsequently, higher deviant behavior, but decreased innovative behavior. This study contributes to the literature by extending our knowledge of the impact of TSD on individual employee outcomes and demonstrating how the same status differences can yield both positive and negative outcomes depending on the personality traits of the employees involved. These findings serve as a useful reference for the design of team status structures in modern firms.
This study aimed to systematically examine the relationship between emotion differentiation (ED) and depressive symptoms. Cochrane Library, Web of Science, Embase, EBSCO, PubMed and Science Direct databases were searched from the time of build to March 25, 2023 for studies that: (i) were in English, (ii) peer-reviewed, (iii) reported correlations between PED/NED and depressive symptoms, and (iv) NED, PED, and NA were derived from emotional scores using ecological momentary assessment, daily diaries, and standardized stimuli ratings. Exclusions included duplicates, non-empirical research, studies not focused on PED/NED or depressive symptoms, conference abstracts, review articles, and studies lacking correlations between PED/NED and depressive symptoms. Review Manager 5.4 and Stata 17.0 software were used to perform meta-analysis, subgroup analysis, sensitivity analysis, meta-regression analysis and publication bias detection of the extracted data. A total of 16 samples with 2515 participants were included. Some evaluated studies found a negative correlation between negative emotion differentiation (NED) and depressive symptoms, while others reported positive association. No significant correlation was observed between positive emotion differentiation (PED) and depressive symptoms. Meta-analysis revealed a significantly negative association between NED and depressive symptoms (r= -0.14, 95%CI= [-0.21, -0.06],p< 0.01). However, PED was not significantly related to depressive symptoms (r= -0.02, 95%CI= [-0.07, 0.03],p= 0.41). Critically, the correlation between NED and depressive symptoms was moderated by mean negative affect (NA) (t= 3.50,p< 0.01, 95%CI= [0.297, 1.377]), whereas diagnostic status, assessment of NED, age and proportion of female did not emerge as moderators. This study confirmed the negative association between NED and depressive symptoms, in particular when experiencing more intensive negative emotions, whereas the null association between PED and depressive symptoms. In addition, the diagnostic status, assessment of NED, age and proportion of female did not affect the link. Our findings have important clinical implications for facilitating the comprehending, prevention and treatment of depression. We discuss limitations as well as suggestions for future research.
IntroductionMental health is crucial for overcoming obstacles, completing tasks, and contributing to society. Mental, social, and cognitive healths are included. In demanding fields like medicine, academic pressure can cause exhaustion, poor performance, and behavioral changes. Mental health must be addressed to improve student success and well-being. Medical students’ coping strategies, anxiety, depression, and behavioral changes in uncontrollable situations will be studied.MethodologyA cross-sectional study involved 393 medical students from various universities in Khartoum. Data was collected using an online questionnaire to assess mental health responses during both controllable and uncontrollable situations across all academic years.ResultsData analysis using SPSS 27 indicated minimal missing data (0.25%) among the 393 participants. PHQ-4 scores assessed psychological distress, anxiety, and depression. The study found that 74.2% of participants experienced behavioral, cognitive, and emotional changes. Significant associations were observed between PHQ-4 scores and these changes (p< .05) using Chi-Square testing. Most participants were females aged 20 to 22, primarily from the Medicine and Pharmacy departments. The study revealed that most individuals utilized pharmacological coping strategies following significant life changes due to uncontrollable situations.ConclusionThe study highlights that women experienced stress, dissatisfaction, concern, and anger more frequently than men during ongoing war and the post-COVID-19 lockdown. Medical students faced substantial challenges in behavior, emotions, and cognition during societal unrest, including fatigue, feelings of failure, and sleep disturbances. Over 74% reported multiple changes in their emotions and behaviors. Coping strategies included nicotine, sleeping aids, socializing, exercise, venting, meditation, and journaling.
Awareness of age-related change has been shown to outperform chronological age on a variety of outcomes. More specifically, its two dimensions, awareness of positive and negative age-related changes, have been shown to be, respectively, positively and negatively associated with work-related proactivity, and that they are better predictors than chronological age and subjective age for key types of proactivity. In this paper we construct and test a model of the mechanisms that may explain these relationships. Drawing on two aging theories, socio-emotional selectivity theory and selection, optimization and compensation theory, we hypothesize that future time perspective and goal setting mediate the relationship between awareness of age-related change and proactivity. Using data (n= 410) from a survey of Chinese teachers, the tests of the model support it in the case of two dimensions of proactivity, task and development proactivity. Awareness of age-related change does not, however predict a third dimension, organization proactivity, as having a managerial role is a more dominant factor. The study further quells doubts about older employees’ ability to contribute creatively to their roles and highlights the virtues of aging processes rather than chronological age in understanding work-related behaviors.
BackgroundEmotions are a fundamental part of life and play a critical role in shaping individuals’ experiences Effectively regulating emotions in socially appropriate ways is essential for navigating life successfully. This study investigated the impact of seven sadness regulation strategies on depression and anxiety and examined the mediating role of ER in the relationship between sadness regulation and depression and anxiety.MethodA cross-sectional design was employed with 350 participants (144 men, 206 women) aged 18 to 35.ResultsRegression analyses showed that sadness regulation strategies significantly predict both depression and anxiety. For depression, the model explained 18.6% of the variance (F(7,342) = 11.140,p< 0.001), with cognitive reappraisal, religious coping, and seeking support negatively associated, while rumination was positively associated. For anxiety, the model explained 19% of the variance (F(7,342) = 11.484,p< 0.001), with rumination and substance use linked to lower anxiety levels, while other strategies showed no significant associations. Mediation analyses highlighted emotion regulation critical role, with sadness regulation influencing depression indirectly through ER (β= -0.024, 95% CI [-0.040, -0.009]) and accounting for 3.6% of the variance. Sadness regulation also had a direct (β= -0.037,p< 0.001) and indirect effect on anxiety through emotion regulation, explaining 6.1% of the variance.ConclusionThese findings underscore the importance of adaptive sadness and emotion regulation strategies in mitigating depression and anxiety, offering valuable insights for therapeutic interventions.
The present study explores the relative importance of men’s physical attractiveness and purported intelligence to the hypothetical mate preferences and choices of 201 daughters and 187 corresponding parents. We measured self-reported mate preferences and then varied men’s physical attractiveness (more vs. less attractive) and intelligence (higher vs. lower peer intelligence rating) in a 2 × 2 independent groups design replicated across daughters and parents. Although intelligence was rated by both women and their parents as significantly more important than physical attractiveness for a long-term mate for daughters, both daughters (72.64%) and their parents (59.56%) chose the more attractive man as the best long-term partner for daughters, regardless of his purported intelligence level. Furthermore, although daughters rated a partner’s attractiveness as more important than their parents did when considering a mate for daughters, daughters’ and parents’ choices corresponded 73.8% of the time, suggesting less conflict over mate choices than may be predicted based on self-reported ideal mate preferences. However, when higher attractiveness and higher intelligence were not paired, women were more likely to choose the more attractive man while parents were more likely to choose the more intelligent man, suggesting different trade-off preferences for women and their parents. Men’s physical attractiveness may be more important to both daughters and parents than consciously realized, and daughters’ and parents’ mate choices may correspond more closely than their responses to rating scales might suggest.
In an era marked by the rise of interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research, this paper embraces a multidisciplinary approach by utilizing quantum mechanics to critically examine human consciousness through the literary textThe Pregnant King(2008). The myth of Yuvaneshva, whose feminine nature is regarded as taboo, is analysed through the lens of quantum mechanical principles. Specifically, Yuvaneshva’s psyche is interpreted via the concepts of the double slit experiment, quantum entanglement, quantum actuality and potentiality, and wave-particle duality, which serve as methodologies to explore the Anima’s struggle. This study integrates Carl Jung’s theory of the collective unconscious and Roland Barthes’ theory of myth within a quantum framework to analyse the formation of meaning, leading to hyperreality and depicting the Self’s struggle within this hyperreal context. By positioning these theories within quantum logic, the paper examines the Self-Other duality (akin to wave-particle duality) and how the collective unconscious reshapes the nature of the Self through quantum principles. This approach elucidates the concept of truth in terms of quantum actuality and potentiality, scrutinizing the ambiguous nature of the Self and how socially constructed ideologies (collective unconscious) obscure personal truth through hyperreal social constructs. Furthermore, it proposes a multidisciplinary method for the study of myths, thereby bridging the traditionally perceived gap between science and literature. By adopting an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary perspective, this method fosters collaboration between science and literature, paving the way for future research and promoting various multidisciplinary approaches.
This paper examines early expositions of the idea that to think about an object is to construct and manipulate an internal model of that object. The origin of this idea is normally credited to Kenneth Craik (1943) but here I show that it is prefigured in the writings of two nineteenth century physicist-psychologists, Hermann von Helmholtz and Ernst Mach.
With increased urbanization, the need to create a child-friendly society for all has increased in urgency. Ensuring children’s right to participate in the development of child-friendly cities is a crucial part of this effort. This study used focus group interviews to explore action framework for creating a friendly social environment from the philosophical perspective of children in current Chinese social contexts. This study was conducted in three primary schools located in urban, rural and rural‒urban fringe areas. With the school’s consent, we enhanced the sample diversity by randomly selecting 6–12 third- and fourth-grade students, as well as 8–12 fifth- and sixth-grade students from each school. In total, six focus groups consisting of 53 primary school students were formed. The results indicated that a friendly family environment consists of seven dimensions: family communication; support; companionship; interaction; respect and equality; conflict and violence avoidance; and the normative behavior and positive qualities of family members. A friendly school environment was found to involve seven dimensions: teacher‒student relationships, peer relationships, a student-centered learning environment, student involvement, parental involvement in school life, the personal characteristics of adults working at the school, and children’s responsibilities. A friendly community environment was found to consist of six dimensions: neighborly relationships, community support, civil community behavior, community activities, children’s participation, and children’s sense of responsibility. The children were also guided to discuss strategies for improving friendly family, school and community social environments. This study identified children’s perspectives on friendly social environments and concrete strategies for building these environments, which can be used as important theoretical support for work practices in current Chinese culture.
BackgroundCreativity motivated by negative intentions can be referred to as malevolent creativity. While existing findings have largely focused on environmental or individual factors influencing malevolent creativity, less attention has been directed towards understanding how the sense of place—derived from individual-environment interaction—affects malevolent creativity. Additionally, the role of coping styles as mediating mechanisms in negative environments has been insufficiently explored.MethodsThis study aims to investigate the relationship between negative sense of place and malevolent creativity, while examining the mediating role of coping styles. To this end, a paper-based survey was conducted among 1310 Chinese high school students, utilizing the Negative Sense of Place Scale, Coping Styles Scale, and Malevolent Creativity Scale. Data were analyzed using SPSS 26.0 and Mplus 8.3.ResultsThe findings revealed that a negative sense of place in the school environment significantly and positively predicted malevolent creativity. Negative sense of place was also positively associated with negative coping styles and negatively associated with positive coping styles. Furthermore, coping styles mediated the relationship between negative sense of place and malevolent creativity.ConclusionThis study enriches existing literature by elucidating the links between sense of place, coping styles, and malevolent creativity. These findings provide valuable insights for strategies aimed at reducing malevolent creativity and preventing harmful creative behaviors in educational contexts.
Within the framework of Moral Foundations Theory (MFT; Haidt & Graham,Social Justice Research,20(1), 98–116,2007; Haidt & Joseph,Daedalus,133(4), 55–66,2004), the aim of the present study is to adapt and discuss the psychometric features of the Moral Foundations Questionnaire 2 (MFQ-2; Atari et al.,Journal of Personality and Social Psychology,2023) in the Italian context. Utilizing a sample of 947 Italian adults, a Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) was conducted, which confirmed the six-factor solution initially proposed for the MFQ-2. Each moral foundation demonstrated acceptable reliability, underscoring the robustness of the questionnaire’s internal consistency. Correlation analyses between the MFQ-2 and MFQ-1 dimensions indicate a significant consistency across the dimensions of both versions, affirming the convergent validity of the MFQ-2. Additionally, Multi-Group Confirmatory Analyses (MGCFAs) indicated that the MFQ-2 exhibits configural invariance across genders. Despite several limitations, this study provides precious insights into the adaptation process of the MFQ-2 for the Italian cultural context, contributing to a broader understanding of the MFT in Italy.
This study explores the influence of full-range leadership approaches (transformational, transactional, and passive avoidant) on followers’ envy and the influence of envy on organizational citizenship behaviors (OCBs) and work deviances (WDs). We conducted two three-wave studies involving 784 employees and 206 supervisors from diverse industries. Based on followers’ perceptions of leadership (study 1) and leaders’ rated leadership styles (study 2), the Bayesian multilevel results reveal that transactional leadership is positively associated with followers’ envy, while transformational leadership is negatively associated with envy. Passive avoidant leadership has no significant relationship with envy (study 2). Envy acts as a bridge connecting transformational and transactional leadership styles and their effects on OCBs (study 1), as well as their impact on WDs (study 2). This research enhances the understanding of how full-range leadership styles impact followers’ envy and provides a noteworthy extension to the ever-growing literature on the nexus of leadership and envy.
Children are expected to outlive and live longer than their parents. However, the traumatic death of a child challenges parents’ understanding of life and death. If parents are unable to form their own perceptions of death after such a loss, it can hinder their ability to cope and adjust. This study aims to explore parents’ perceptions of death following the traumatic death of a child. To recruit participants, an online advertisement was posted on the websites of Finnish bereavement organizations, their member mailing lists, and closed discussion groups. The study consisted of two phases. In the initial phase, 66 parents responded to open-ended questions via the LimeSurvey platform. Subsequently, 17 parents were interviewed in-depth over the phone. The findings were analyzed using thematic analysis. The perceptions of parents who had experienced the traumatic death of a child included death is universal, awakening or preparing for their own death, reunion in death, death and spiritual growth, and death is unjustified. These findings highlight the importance of providing support to parents following the traumatic death of a child, which can help them reconstruct perceptions of death and better adapt to their loss.
The COVID-19 pandemic has ushered in unprecedented challenges globally, significantly impacting mental health and wellbeing. This study examines the impact of social disconnectedness on mental health, when it is imposed as forced action to control the spread of COVID-19. Moreover, the impact of family support and religious commitment as key factors of subcontinent culture are analyzed in moderating variables on psychological distress due to social disconnectedness. The data was collected from 450 participants from Pakistan through a web-based survey using pre-validated scales and analyzed using structure equation modelling (SEM). The results of the study indicate that social disconnectedness significantly influences psychological distress. Moreover, family support and religious commitment significantly moderate the relationship between social disconnectedness and psychological distress. The social disconnectedness strategy adopted during the COVID-19 outbreak resulted in a psychological crisis. Such intervention in countries with weak economies and health systems may result in another pandemic of mental stress. The study highlights the critical need for policymakers to integrate culturally relevant support mechanisms, such as family and faith-based interventions when designing public health strategies. Incorporating such approaches can mitigate the mental health repercussions of future crises, ensuring holistic community wellbeing while combating pandemics.
Science-related populism has recently emerged alongside political populism. However, its occurrence, connections with political populist attitudes, and underlying factors have not been explored in the Central-European context. This study seeks to achieve three key objectives: (1) examine the relationships among science-related populist attitudes, their subdimensions, and political populist attitudes; (2) assess the prevalence of populist attitudes; and (3) analyze a set of explanatory and exploratory factors contributing to political and science-related populist attitudes. Drawing from a national sample of 643 Slovaks, our study highlights the importance of addressing science-related populism in parallel with political populism. It elucidates the intricate interplay between these attitudes, with political populism being more prevalent in the Slovak population, albeit intertwined with science-related populism. Several contributing factors, such as education, political orientation, religiosity, trust in science, relative deprivation, faith in intuition, and susceptibility to pseudoscientific beliefs, were identified. These factors offer valuable insights into the emergence of populist attitudes in Slovakia. The findings from this study hold significance for further research aimed at comprehending and addressing the phenomenon of science-related populism within the Central-European context.
In an era marked by the rise of interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research, this paper embraces a multidisciplinary approach by utilizing quantum mechanics to critically examine human consciousness through the literary textThe Pregnant King(2008). The myth of Yuvaneshva, whose feminine nature is regarded as taboo, is analysed through the lens of quantum mechanical principles. Specifically, Yuvaneshva’s psyche is interpreted via the concepts of the double slit experiment, quantum entanglement, quantum actuality and potentiality, and wave-particle duality, which serve as methodologies to explore the Anima’s struggle. This study integrates Carl Jung’s theory of the collective unconscious and Roland Barthes’ theory of myth within a quantum framework to analyse the formation of meaning, leading to hyperreality and depicting the Self’s struggle within this hyperreal context. By positioning these theories within quantum logic, the paper examines the Self-Other duality (akin to wave-particle duality) and how the collective unconscious reshapes the nature of the Self through quantum principles. This approach elucidates the concept of truth in terms of quantum actuality and potentiality, scrutinizing the ambiguous nature of the Self and how socially constructed ideologies (collective unconscious) obscure personal truth through hyperreal social constructs. Furthermore, it proposes a multidisciplinary method for the study of myths, thereby bridging the traditionally perceived gap between science and literature. By adopting an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary perspective, this method fosters collaboration between science and literature, paving the way for future research and promoting various multidisciplinary approaches.
This paper examines early expositions of the idea that to think about an object is to construct and manipulate an internal model of that object. The origin of this idea is normally credited to Kenneth Craik (1943) but here I show that it is prefigured in the writings of two nineteenth century physicist-psychologists, Hermann von Helmholtz and Ernst Mach.
BackgroundThe positive association of parental phubbing with internalizing and externalizing problems among adolescents has gained academic traction. However, current researches on the negative impacts of parental phubbing have focused primarily on adolescents, with a noticeable lack of studies concerning preschool children, and there is also a deficiency in investigations from the perspective of the Risky Family Model. These gaps limit our understanding of how parental phubbing affects problem behaviors among preschool children. To address this gap, the present study constructed a chain mediation model to examine the association between parental phubbing and social withdrawal in preschool children, by introducing two mediating variables—parent–child conflict and negative emotions.MethodsA sample of 739 preschool children (mean age 5.04 years,SD= 0.84) and their parents participated in the study. The parents completed measures of the Parental Phubbing Scale, Child–Parent Relationship Scale, Children’s Behavior Questionnaire, and Child Social Preference Scale. The Cronbach’s alpha coefficient of the four scales were 0.75, 0.84, 0.74, and 0.83, respectively. All the measures showed good reliability and validity in the present study. The data were analyzed via SPSS 26.0 and SPSS PROCESS.ResultsThe results indicated that (1) parental phubbing had a significant positive effect on social withdrawal in young children; (2) parent–child conflict and negative emotions independently mediated the relationship between parental phubbing and social withdrawal in young children; and (3) parent–child conflict and negative emotions served as serial mediators in the relationship between parental phubbing and social withdrawal in young children.ConclusionsThese findings in the present study contribute to understanding the mechanisms underlying the association between parental phubbing and social withdrawal and have important implications for interventions aimed at improving social withdrawal among preschool children in China. Furthermore, the present study first introduced parental phubbing into the Risky Family Model, expanding the applicability of this model.
BackgroundCreativity motivated by negative intentions can be referred to as malevolent creativity. While existing findings have largely focused on environmental or individual factors influencing malevolent creativity, less attention has been directed towards understanding how the sense of place—derived from individual-environment interaction—affects malevolent creativity. Additionally, the role of coping styles as mediating mechanisms in negative environments has been insufficiently explored.MethodsThis study aims to investigate the relationship between negative sense of place and malevolent creativity, while examining the mediating role of coping styles. To this end, a paper-based survey was conducted among 1310 Chinese high school students, utilizing the Negative Sense of Place Scale, Coping Styles Scale, and Malevolent Creativity Scale. Data were analyzed using SPSS 26.0 and Mplus 8.3.ResultsThe findings revealed that a negative sense of place in the school environment significantly and positively predicted malevolent creativity. Negative sense of place was also positively associated with negative coping styles and negatively associated with positive coping styles. Furthermore, coping styles mediated the relationship between negative sense of place and malevolent creativity.ConclusionThis study enriches existing literature by elucidating the links between sense of place, coping styles, and malevolent creativity. These findings provide valuable insights for strategies aimed at reducing malevolent creativity and preventing harmful creative behaviors in educational contexts.
Children are expected to outlive and live longer than their parents. However, the traumatic death of a child challenges parents’ understanding of life and death. If parents are unable to form their own perceptions of death after such a loss, it can hinder their ability to cope and adjust. This study aims to explore parents’ perceptions of death following the traumatic death of a child. To recruit participants, an online advertisement was posted on the websites of Finnish bereavement organizations, their member mailing lists, and closed discussion groups. The study consisted of two phases. In the initial phase, 66 parents responded to open-ended questions via the LimeSurvey platform. Subsequently, 17 parents were interviewed in-depth over the phone. The findings were analyzed using thematic analysis. The perceptions of parents who had experienced the traumatic death of a child included death is universal, awakening or preparing for their own death, reunion in death, death and spiritual growth, and death is unjustified. These findings highlight the importance of providing support to parents following the traumatic death of a child, which can help them reconstruct perceptions of death and better adapt to their loss.
We aimed to examine the impact of Leader-Member Exchange (LMX) on organizational performance within the context of Kenyan small and medium enterprises (SMEs). We employed a comprehensive, integrated fuzzy reasoning approach to address critical research gaps in culturally diverse, resource-limited settings. Data from 1,350 respondents and expert assessments through fuzzy weighted sum techniques provided an indepth insights into how LMX quality correlates with organizational success. Demographically, a proportion of (827)61% was ascertained for males while a value of (523)39% was determined representing females. The youngest and oldest age distributions were observed to be from 26 to 58. Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) result confirm positive associations between LMX and improvements in employee well-being, job satisfaction, and organizational resilience, illustrating LMX’s role in fostering a cohesive and resilient work environment that supports team effectiveness and sustainable growth. These findings establish LMX as a vital strategic asset for bolstering employee engagement and driving competitive organizational performance. Our study advances the theoretical understanding of LMX by integrating fuzzy logic with affective engagement analysis thereby offering a practical framework for SME leaders in emerging markets to enhance employee engagement and organizational efficiency.
The purpose of this study is to examine the mediating effects of acculturative stress and loneliness on the relationship between perceived discrimination, depression, and somatization among international students from Mongolia living in South Korea. Data were collected from 288 Mongolian international students in South Korea, and 268 responses were analyzed after excluding 20 participants who were not university students or had incomplete responses.The analysis was conducted using SPSS 22.0 and AMOS 22.0 programs to evaluate the structural equation model. The results indicated that perceived discrimination had a significant direct effect on acculturative stress, depression, and somatization. However, the direct path from perceived discrimination to loneliness was not significant. Additionally, acculturative stress had a significant effect on loneliness, depression, and somatization, suggesting that higher levels of acculturative stress are associated with increased loneliness, depression, and somatization. Furthermore, loneliness had a significant negative effect on both depression and somatization. The mediated effects of loneliness and acculturation were significant, indicatingthat perceived discrimination canincrease acculturative stress, which in turn can increase loneliness, leading to depression. Finally, perceived discrimination had a significant indirect effect on somatization through acculturative stress and loneliness.
This study explored the psychological factors related to the intention to avoid childbirth among Korean adult women of childbearing age. The study verified predictive models for this intention using psychological variables and demographic profiles to provide useful information and knowledge for further studies and interventions. The participants were 400 Korean women of childbearing age, aged 18–45 years. The predictive models were verified using stepwise regression and decision tree analyses. The results revealed that neuroticism, extraversion, agreeableness, behavioral activation system (BAS), behavioral inhibition system (BIS), stress, hardiness, life satisfaction, and expectations for the future were significantly correlated with the intention to avoid childbirth among Korean adult women of childbearing age. Stepwise regression analysis revealed that neuroticism accounted for the greatest variance in the intention to avoid childbirth. Neuroticism, life satisfaction, drive, expectations for the future, and tenacity accounted for approximately 16.5% of the variance in women’s intentions to avoid childbirth in young adulthood. The decision tree model predicting the intention to avoid childbirth included life satisfaction, extraversion, witnessing mothers’ difficulties raising children, religion, and neuroticism. These findings suggest that psychological variables such as neuroticism and life satisfaction may play a more important role in Korean young adult women’s intention to avoid childbirth.
In the realm of project management, leadership has long been a focal point of concern. However, the emergence and significance of informal leadership within the project context remain underexplored. This study, drawing on social exchange theory, hypothesizes the relationship between leader-member exchange (LMX) and the emergence of informal leadership, as well as the moderating effects of organizational complexity and ethical leadership. Using an experimental study (Study 1) and a multi-source survey (Study 2) with 198 participants from 68 project teams, this research demonstrates how informal leadership emergence acts as a mediator between LMX and project performance. Further analysis reveals that organizational complexity and ethical leadership strengthen the connection between LMX and informal leadership emergence. These findings offer a comprehensive explanation of how informal leadership emerges within project teams, identifying key conditions that facilitate it, and reveal its role and impact on project performance. By unveiling these dynamics, the study provides crucial insights into identifying and fostering informal leadership to enhance project performance.
The aim of this study was to investigate the psychometric properties of the “Body and Appearance Self-Conscious Emotions Scale (BASES)” and “Body and Fitness-Related Self-Conscious Emotions Scale (BSE-FIT)” for Turkish adolescents. Each scale consists of 16 items and four subscales (shame, guilt, authentic pride, and hubristic pride) and items are responded on 5-point Likert scale. The psychometric properties of BASES and BSE-FIT were tested on 332 girls and 264 boys, a total of 596 participants (Mage=13.88,SDage=1.92). Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and exploratory structural equation modelling (ESEM) with multi-group analysis (MGA) were used to test the 4-factor and 2-factor structures and measurement invariance. Cronbach’s alpha internal consistency coefficient and composite reliability (CR) were calculated for reliability. According to the model fit indices and factor loadings, the most appropriate model was the 4-factor CFA model for BASES and BSE-FIT. Cronbach’s alpha and CR coefficients were 0.79 and above in the 4-factor CFA structures of both scales. In addition, MGA demonstrated factor structures, factor loadings, intercepts, and measurement error variance of BASES and BSE-FIT were equivalent according to sex, school level, sport status, region, and body mass index. In conclusion, BASES and BSE-FIT are valid and reliable in Turkish adolescents, and both scales provided measurement invariance in adolescents with different demographic characteristics.
In today’s debate about a user oriented humanistic turn in the field of mental health care, the early Foucault is once again relevant. In his works from 1954 Foucault shows that the root of understanding mental phenomena is not to be found in universal medical concepts and methods, but in the reflection on lived experiences and in the human being itself. In accordance with contemporary social, community, and cultural psychologists, such as Brinkmann, Kinderman and Prilleltensky, Foucault is critical to the psychology’s medical foundations. Instead of focusing on medical and physiological matters he suggests that psychology, as a discipline, should be more user oriented, and focus more on the human being itself, and on social and cultural contexts.
Age-related impairments are observed in a variety of cognitive constructs, including significant deteriorations in working memory (WM) performance. To measure the WM, the commonly used task in cognitive aging is then-back. Despite its widespread use, however, its psychometric properties have not been sufficiently studied. Previous research has typically examined construct validity by correlatingn-back task measures with other WM tasks and has primarily assessed reliability through test-retest, occasionally including split-half reliability. In this study, we comprehensively examined the psychometric properties of then-back task by evaluating its construct validity across different age groups (younger and older adults) and stimulus types (verbal and non-verbal) and by assessing reliability through three methods: test-retest, split-half, and alternate forms. Our findings showed similar performance in verbal and non-verbaln-back tasks for both younger and older adults in terms of discrimination ability and reaction time. However, age-related differences favored younger adults, providing evidence for construct validity. In addition, then-back measures were stable over time, consistent for two halves, and comparable for different forms, demonstrating task. This study provides the first evidence supporting the validity of then-back task with regard to age and stimulus type, alongside its reliability. These findings have important implications for clinical research and practice, suggesting that then-back task can be confidently utilized in neuropsychological assessments.
This study used structural equation modeling analyses to ascertain the contribution of four aspects of L2 word knowledge of meaning to second language translation proficiency among 358 Chinese University students with advanced English as foreign language learners. Vocabulary knowledge was measured in four form-meaning item formats: active recall, passive recall, active recognition, and passive recognition. The translation ability test includes sentence and paragraph translation from English to Chinese and Chinese to English. The study revealed a significant correlation between the four aspects of vocabulary knowledge of meaning and L2 translation proficiency based on Pearson correlation coefficients. Furthermore, the study found that active recall is crucial in L2 translation proficiency, passive recall ranks second, then followed by active recognition and passive recognition, as per the linear multiple regression analyses of AMOS-SEM. This highlights the importance of four aspects of L2 vocabulary knowledge of meaning, especially active recall, in improving L2 translation proficiency. It suggests that learners should focus on this aspect of vocabulary knowledge to enhance their performance. The findings of this study could be valuable for educators and learners in the vocabulary learning and translation field.
This qualitative study aimed to establish aspects of humanistic therapy that young people (13–16 years old) perceived as helpful and hindering, and to test a novel method for identifying perceived processes of change. A “medium q” thematic analysis was conducted followed by a coding-based “process of change analysis.” Participants were 50 young people in London schools who experienced moderate or severe emotional symptoms and had participated in up to 10 sessions of a school-based humanistic intervention. Participants were predominantly female and ethnically heterogeneous. Therapist qualities most often perceived as helpful were affiliative in nature. Unhelpful therapist activities were silences and a lack of input. Young people described feeling free to talk and open up. Helpful outcomes included feeling unburdened, gaining insight, and improving relationships. “Getting things off their chest,” “Advice and guidance,” “Modeling relationships,” and “insights to behavior change” were identified as specific processes of change in over 50% of young people. Approximately one-third felt hindered by a lack of therapist input, silences, or not feeling able to open up or trust. These findings indicate the potential value of an active, “process guiding” stance in humanistic therapy. Our process of change analysis has potential for identifying perceived change mechanisms in therapy. This work was supported by the Economic and Social Research Council [grant reference ES/M011933/1]. Anonymized qualitative interview transcripts are available on request to the First Author/Chief Investigator. Quantitative, participant-level data for the ETHOS study (with data dictionary), and related documents (e.g., parental consent form), are available via the ReShare UK Data Service (reshare.ukdataservice.ac.uk/853764/). Access requires ReShare registration.
This research examines the dynamics between organizationally prescribed perfectionism (OPP), psychological safety, burnout, depression, and coaching leadership in the context of the South Korean workforce. By applying several theories, we developed a moderated mediation model. This model suggests that psychological safety and burnout act as sequential mediators between OPP and depression, while coaching leadership moderates the relationship between OPP and psychological safety. Our data, collected from 413 employees across four waves using a time-lagged design, support our proposed model. Structural equation modeling revealed that OPP directly and indirectly affects depression via psychological safety and burnout. Furthermore, the impact of OPP on psychological safety is reduced under strong coaching leadership. These findings underscore the need to address perfectionism in the workplaces and highlight the central roles of psychological safety and coaching leadership in enhancing employee resilience and well-being. This study enriches existing literature by bringing together different theoretical frameworks to provide a comprehensive understanding of how perfectionism affects employee outcomes. It also provides practical recommendations for organizations seeking to foster a supportive and thriving work environment amidst increasing demands for perfectionism.
It is well established in the literature that the relation of spatial ability and the number representation, but the intrinsic relation of spatial visualization ability and number representation are not well understood. In the Current study, Chinese Preschool children (N= 200; 107 girls; Mage = 5.47years, SD = 0.67) completed two kinds of spatial visualization tasks and six kinds of number representation tasks. The results showed that spatial visualization ability was positively correlated with number representation for 5 years-old Children. Furthermore, spatial visualization ability can positively predicted number representation. These findings are consistent with the view that spatial visualization is recognized for its potential to enhance numerical skills, encompassing competencies associated with fundamental number. Therefore, developing children’s spatial visualization ability may be an effective way to enhance their number representation skills. This has important implications for early education and intervention strategies.
Although evidence from previous studies suggests that adolescents with negative coping styles who experienced victimization are more likely to exhibit depressive symptoms, these associations have not yet been disentangled to separate between-person differences from within-person effects. To investigate the within-person bidirectional relationships among relational victimization, coping styles and depressive symptoms, this study conducted a four-wave random intercept cross-lagged panel model analysis. The final sample consisted of 1506 adolescents, 72.6% of whom were male, with a mean age of 10.90 years (SD= 1.12) at the first time point. The findings revealed a prospective within-person association between relational victimization and depressive symptoms, and a reciprocal within-person relationship between depressive symptoms and avoidance coping. The approach coping style negatively predicted depressive symptoms over time, whereas depressive symptoms did not affect the approach coping style. These findings show how depressive symptoms, relational victimization, and coping styles are related at the individual level, extending previous research through the demonstration of stable within-person associations over time.
A growing body of evidence across psychology suggests that (cognitive) effort exertion increases in proximity to a goal state. For instance, previous work has shown that participants respond more quickly, but not less accurately, when they near a goal—as indicated by a filling progress bar. Yet it remains unclearwhenover the course of a cognitively demanding task do people monitor progress information: Do they continuously monitor their goal progress over the course of a task, or attend more frequently to it as they near their goal? To answer this question, we used eye-tracking to examine trial-by-trial changes in progress monitoring as participants completed blocks of an attentionally demanding oddball task. Replicating past work, we found that participants increased cognitive effort exertion near a goal, as evinced by an increase in correct responses per second. More interestingly, we found that the rate at which participants attended to goal progress information—operationalized here as the frequency of gazes towards a progress bar—increased steeply near a goal state. In other words, participants extracted information from the progress bar at a higher rate when goals were proximal (versus distal). In exploratory analysis of tonic pupil diameter, we also found that tonic pupil size increased sharply as participants approached a goal state, mirroring the pattern of gaze. These results support the view that people attend to progress information more as they approach a goal.
This study examined how Israeli men who pay women for sex (MPWS) construct and sustain a moral identity within the social context that often portrays them as deviants, perpetrators, and abusers, thereby challenging their ability to maintain a respectful and dignified image. Twenty-three Israeli MPWS participated in in-depth semi-structured interviews, which were then analyzed using constructivist grounded theory method. Using the theoretical framework moral reflexivity, we conceptualize three central dynamics of constructing and sustaining a moral identity in the context of paying for sex: Maintaining an intact moral self by resisting the moral conflict; presenting a reflexive agonizing moral self; and constructing a moral self through identity fragmentation. The findings reveal that these facets of the moral reflexivity process can overlap, coexist, and circulate in a messy manner, thus promoting an ecological understanding of how morality is shaped by various societal forces, rather than discovering what a moral identity is. We therefore call for a morally sensitive approach in studies in the field of MPWS and sex work. Such an approach encourages researchers to be aware of moral issues, moral questions, and moral processes, and to treat morality as a socially context-dependent trait that is highly relevant to the study of the sex industry.
The purpose of this commentary is to highlight the negative impact of caregiver burden on the mental health and well-being of family members who provide informal care for their loved ones. Personal fulfilment and strengthened family bonds are among the inherent rewards of informal caregiving. However, it is associated with physical, emotional/psychological, social, and financial burdens. Caregivers mostly suffer from caregiver burdens such as stress, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), compassion fatigue, burnout, depression, and suicidal ideation. Informal caregivers are pivotal in providing informal care for their families and loved ones, particularly in low-and middle-income countries (LMICs) such as Ghana and Nigeria. Family caregivers who provide informal care are often at risk of becoming invisible victims of poor mental health outcomes. Informal caregivers lack the knowledge and skills to support themselves because they may not have been trained. In these contexts, mental illness, attending mental healthcare programmes, and providing to care individuals suffering from mental illnesses are often stigmatised and associated with shame, limiting access to professional support for both caregivers and care recipients. There is sufficient evidence that self-compassion interventions are effective in protecting the mental health of people across diverse cultures. Therefore, family caregivers will benefit from self-compassion training interventions to protect themselves and from mental health problems associated with caregiving roles.
Supporting the implementation of evidence-based interventions is a core goal of implementation science. Although prior research points to the role of technology and intervention coaches in supporting implementation in the school setting, existing models may not be feasible in many real-world school contexts, due to time and resource constraints. Thus, the purpose of this study was to examine the acceptability, feasibility, and utility of a novel implementation support package that leverages interactive technology and strategic resources within the existing school social network to support teachers’ use of the Daily Report Card. The Daily Report Card is an evidence-based intervention for disruptive classroom behavior. We used a multi-method single case study to understand this implementation support package in one school district in western Canada. Data for this study included social network analysis, teacher and coach surveys, a coach focus group, teacher interviews, and teacher implementation data. Results indicate that our implementation support package was viewed as acceptable, feasible, and useful by participating schools, but that some improvements are also needed. Lessons learned about leveraging peers within the social network and about the use of interactive technology to support implementation are discussed.
This study seeks to uncover the underlying belief structures that shape the cognitive processes behind the intention of unmarried women toward marriage. To achieve this, the extended theory of planned behavior was utilized as the theoretical framework. Quantitative data were collected from 480 unmarried women in China. Structural Equation Modeling was used to analyze the data. This study followed a two-phase survey procedure. In the first phase, the target population’s beliefs were elicited, and in the second phase, the relationships between those beliefs and other theories of planned behavior constructs were analyzed. The findings indicate that the theory of planned behavior model effectively elucidates the formation of marital intentions among these women. Negative and positive behavior beliefs, normative beliefs, and control beliefs serve as foundational elements for shaping marital attitudes, subjective norms, and perceived behavioral control. Notably, marital attitudes, subjective norms, and perceived behavioral control directly influence marriage intentions. This research offers insights into the factors potentially influencing the marriage perspectives of Chinese unmarried women. It emphasizes the need to refine laws and regulations to better safeguard the rights and interests of Chinese women, especially in areas like marriage, childbearing, employment, and career progression. Furthermore, the study advocates for the provision of services like marriage counseling, emotional education, and family counseling through public institutions to bolster the marriage intentions of these women.
It is well established in the literature that the relation of spatial ability and the number representation, but the intrinsic relation of spatial visualization ability and number representation are not well understood. In the Current study, Chinese Preschool children (N= 200; 107 girls; Mage = 5.47years, SD = 0.67) completed two kinds of spatial visualization tasks and six kinds of number representation tasks. The results showed that spatial visualization ability was positively correlated with number representation for 5 years-old Children. Furthermore, spatial visualization ability can positively predicted number representation. These findings are consistent with the view that spatial visualization is recognized for its potential to enhance numerical skills, encompassing competencies associated with fundamental number. Therefore, developing children’s spatial visualization ability may be an effective way to enhance their number representation skills. This has important implications for early education and intervention strategies.
Although evidence from previous studies suggests that adolescents with negative coping styles who experienced victimization are more likely to exhibit depressive symptoms, these associations have not yet been disentangled to separate between-person differences from within-person effects. To investigate the within-person bidirectional relationships among relational victimization, coping styles and depressive symptoms, this study conducted a four-wave random intercept cross-lagged panel model analysis. The final sample consisted of 1506 adolescents, 72.6% of whom were male, with a mean age of 10.90 years (SD= 1.12) at the first time point. The findings revealed a prospective within-person association between relational victimization and depressive symptoms, and a reciprocal within-person relationship between depressive symptoms and avoidance coping. The approach coping style negatively predicted depressive symptoms over time, whereas depressive symptoms did not affect the approach coping style. These findings show how depressive symptoms, relational victimization, and coping styles are related at the individual level, extending previous research through the demonstration of stable within-person associations over time.
A growing body of evidence across psychology suggests that (cognitive) effort exertion increases in proximity to a goal state. For instance, previous work has shown that participants respond more quickly, but not less accurately, when they near a goal—as indicated by a filling progress bar. Yet it remains unclearwhenover the course of a cognitively demanding task do people monitor progress information: Do they continuously monitor their goal progress over the course of a task, or attend more frequently to it as they near their goal? To answer this question, we used eye-tracking to examine trial-by-trial changes in progress monitoring as participants completed blocks of an attentionally demanding oddball task. Replicating past work, we found that participants increased cognitive effort exertion near a goal, as evinced by an increase in correct responses per second. More interestingly, we found that the rate at which participants attended to goal progress information—operationalized here as the frequency of gazes towards a progress bar—increased steeply near a goal state. In other words, participants extracted information from the progress bar at a higher rate when goals were proximal (versus distal). In exploratory analysis of tonic pupil diameter, we also found that tonic pupil size increased sharply as participants approached a goal state, mirroring the pattern of gaze. These results support the view that people attend to progress information more as they approach a goal.
This interdisciplinary research investigates the application of wearable-based sensor devices in identifying sexual satisfaction among individuals with disabilities, within the context of sex volunteer services. The research employs a three-step analytical approach incorporating Social Learning Theory (SLT) to examine the interplay between individual needs, organizational services, and societal developments. Methodologically, the study utilizes Factor Analysis (FA) to evaluate factor communalities, Triangular Hierarchical Entropy (THE) to assess decisive weights within the SLT framework, and Analytical Network Process (ANP) to construct an evaluative framework for identifying critical factors in developing wearable sensor technology for sexual rights access. The research yields three main. Conclusions: (1) Wearable sensor technology significantly enhances perceived volitional expressions and behavioral responses of individuals with disabilities in sex volunteer services, potentially leading to increased sexual satisfaction. (2) A complex interplay exists between various components of wearable-based sensor devices and the Neural-Sensory Stimulation System (NSSS), highlighting the sophisticated nature of these technological interventions in enhancing sexual experiences. (3) Wearable sensor components interact complexly with various aspects of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), underscoring their potential in advancing the rights and experiences of disabled individuals in sexual contexts. Finally, the complexity of individual satisfaction identification, emphasizing that it cannot be reduced to singular biological, physiological, or cultural factors. The findings suggest that wearable-based sensor devices offer potential in assisting individuals with disabilities to explore personal sexual satisfaction identification without the influence of human stereotypes, contributing to the advancement of sexual rights while considering cultural background and gender recognition within society.
Time spent on social media has been an inconsistent predictor of mental health outcomes in young people. However, most studies have assessed social media use globally, with few investigations of the relative influence of specific social media platforms, which may partially account for mixed findings. Furthermore, studies often focus on a single mental health outcome, limiting understanding of how social media relates to psychological well-being. The purpose of the current study was to examine associations between time spent on multiple popular social media platforms and a variety of mental health-related outcomes in a sample of young adults. Participants included 575 young adults who completed an online survey assessing self-reported time spent on Twitter, TikTok, YouTube, Instagram, Reddit, Snapchat, and Facebook as well as depression, anxiety, PTSD, loneliness, friend support, and self-esteem. Path analyses showed that in the overall sample, greater use of Tiktok and YouTube were consistently associated with more mental health issues, whereas greater use of Snapchat was associated with fewer mental health issues. Models examining results for men and women separately suggested that use of Tiktok was more relevant in women’s mental health, whereas use of Reddit was more relevant in men’s mental health. Findings highlight that associations are not uniform across social media platforms. More research is needed that compares individual platforms and their relationship to psychological well-being as well as future studies examining how gender impacts findings.
Both parental psychological control (PPC) and state self-compassion have been demonstrated to be associated with depression. However, there remains a need to illuminate the possible direct and indirect pathways among them from a developmental perspective that could serve as intervention targets. Therefore, this study investigated the direct and indirect associations among developmental trajectories of PPC, state self-compassion, and depression in adolescents. A total of 1660 Chinese middle school students (51.93% boys;Mage= 13.51;SD= 0.83) completed self-report measures on 3 time points across 1 years. Latent growth curve modeling was used to examine the direct and indirect associations among the developmental trajectories of the study variables. Results revealed that the developmental trajectory of PPC was positively and directly related to the developmental trajectory of depression, while the developmental trajectory of state self-compassion was negatively and directly related to the developmental trajectory of depression; and the developmental trajectory of PPC was indirectly related to the developmental trajectory of depression via the mediating effect of state self-compassion. The findings elucidated the direct and indirect longitudinal associations among PPC, state self-compassion, and depression, highlighting that interventions aimed at fostering state self-compassion may benefit to prevent the developmental progression from PPC to depression in adolescents.
The positive association between peer attachment insecurity and adolescents’ problem behaviors has been well-documented, but unanswered questions remain about the underlying mechanism and process. The present multi-method research expanded the current knowledge by probing for the mediating role of Machiavellianism in the positive association of peer attachment insecurity and adolescents’ internalizing and externalizing problems. Three independent samples of adolescents (Ntotal=2,947) were used to address these study associations, net of key sociodemographic covariates and social desirability. Robustly replicated findings across three studies revealed that Machiavellianism mediated the positive relationship between peer attachment insecurity and adolescents’ internalizing and externalizing problems. Moderation analysis in Study 2b further indicated that positive family functioning differentially characterized the positive relationship between peer attachment insecurity and Machiavellianism, for betterandfor worse. The current insights into the mechanism and process of this study association punctuate that Machiavellianism, subjective to socioecological conditions (peer-family interaction), serves as an important bridge transferring peer attachment insecurity to adolescents’ problem behaviors.
Previous studies exploring the watching eyes effect with experimental games predominantly employed settings without real-interaction. However, the use of real-interaction setting is crucial for investigating replication and robustness of the watching eyes effect on prosocial behaviours, as prosocial behaviours primarily occur interpersonal interaction. Consequently, the present study comprised five experiments to examine the watching eyes effect on prosocial behaviours using oTree platform, which facilitates real interactions among participants. Furthermore, the current study compares the watching eyes effect across four principal types of prosocial behaviours - namely the Dictator Game, Ultimatum Game, Trust Game, and Prisoner’s Dilemma - in real interaction settings. Our results indicated that in real interaction settings, this effect only occurs in the altruistic behaviour of dictator games. In both Experiments 1a (dictator game in laboratory) and 1b (dictator game online), dictators in the Eye condition distributed more amount to recipient and received a lower payoff than those in the Flower condition. However, the watching eyes effect in ultimatum game (Experiment 2), trust game (Experiment 3) and prisoner’s dilemma (Experiment 4) was not evident. No significant difference were observed in target behaviours between the Eye and the Flower conditions in Experiments 2 (ultimatum game), 3 (trust game), and 4 (prisoner’s dilemma). Our study was an attempt to examine the watching eyes effect in a series of prosocial behaviours with real interaction in one integrated platform, and compare this effect with the same dictator game online and in the laboratory. This study suggests that eye cues can potentially enhance prosocial behaviors in specific contexts such as blood donation and nature conservation, though further replication studies are required to confirm these findings.
The current study examined the associations between internalizing symptoms, social motivation, and gender among autistic and non-autistic youth. Caregivers of 386 participants age 6 to 14 years completed measures of their child’s internalizing symptoms and social motivation. Correlation and hierarchical regression analyses were conducted to compare internalizing symptoms and social motivation across autistic and non-autistic girls and boys. Social motivation was found to be higher among non-autistic participants compared to autistic participants, with no significant gender differences observed in social motivation within groups. Social motivation was found to be a significant predictor of internalizing symptoms. The association between social motivation and internalizing symptoms varied by gender and diagnostic status. Higher internalizing symptom scores were associated with lower social motivation among autistic girls, non-autistic girls, and non-autistic boys, but no association was found among autistic boys. The current study found that the relations between social motivation and anxiety, depression, and somatization symptoms in autistic youth varied by gender. The strong association between internalizing symptoms and social motivation among autistic girls and not autistic boys may be due to the unique social experiences and expectations associated with the intersecting gender and neurodivergent identities of autistic girls. The findings of the current study underscore the value of adopting an intersectionality perspective by considering both the influence of gender and neurodivergent identities together when addressing the social experiences and mental health of autistic youth.
Jealousy responses to potential mating rivals are stronger when those rivals display cues indicating higher mate quality. One such cue is vocal femininity in women's voices, with higher-pitched voices eliciting greater jealousy responses. However, cues to mate quality are not evaluated in isolation. The steroid androstadienone (AND) is a putative sex pheromone that makes women perceive ambiguous stimuli as more masculine. We hypothesized that AND would decrease the association between vocal femininity and jealousy, as it induces a perceptual bias that is incongruent with the femininity of the voice. In a double-blind, within-subjects study, 70 heterosexual Chinese women in the periovulatory phase of their menstrual cycle came to the laboratory twice to listen to pairs of voices manipulated to sound more or less feminine. For each pair, the participants selected the voice that would elicit more jealousy if flirting with their partner. The results showed that vocal femininity provoked jealousy under control conditions, replicating previous findings. However, this effect was weakened when women were exposed to AND, suggesting that AND disrupts sensitivity to vocal cues about mate quality in same-sex competition. These results demonstrate a contextual modulation of jealousy responses to sexual rivals.
Over the past two decades, numerous HIV prevention trials have targeted thousands of young African women, aiming not only to reduce transmissions through biomedical interventions but also to promote safe sexual practices through intensive risk reduction sessions. The primary objective of this study was to review the impact of risk reduction sessions in HIV prevention trials conducted in Africa. We assessed changes in sexual behaviors among women enrolled in various biomedical intervention trials across the African region using both visual and quantitative evaluations. Meta-analysis techniques were used to estimate overall odds ratios. In a sub-group analysis, we also used semiparametric regression models to capture important features of the associations between sexual behaviors across the study visits with minimal statistical assumptions. Key time points were identified using the “zero-crossing” technique. Overall summary odds ratio (OR) for condom use in last sex was estimated as 2.21 (95% CI 2.06, 2.36). In our sub-group analysis, women who reported multiple sexual partners declined (adjusted odds ratios (aORs) range: 0.61–0.67) while condom use in last sex improved over time (aORs ranged from 2.22-to-2.60); 347(57%) women HIV seroconverted within the first 6-months which was the most crucial time point with substantial reductions in risky behaviors. This review highlights that the gradual cumulative effect of risk reduction sessions, rather than an immediate substantial impact, may have significant implications in clinical research settings. Effective and sustainable risk reduction programs should include biological components such as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce HIV transmission.
Self-regulation of learning (SRL) is a key concept for adaptation and performance at the university, as well as a construct studied by Positive Psychology (PP). Adaptation and success in higher education require from students a broad set of competencies. This study aims to assess different dimensions of self-efficacy, self-esteem, optimism, hope, affects, and life satisfaction of undergraduate students while comparing two student groups in distinct phases of their academic courses (freshmen and seniors). A sample of 1,131 undergraduate students of 63 public higher education institutions from several states of Brazil took part in the study. Some statistically significant differences were found according to course stage and sex of the students. The course stage is a particular differentiator of self-efficacy measures of the students. Those results were analyzed based on the academic experiences of the students, with a focus on some implications for the adaptation processes and academic success of the students in higher education.
Objectives: The review aims to explore the relationship between dispositional mindfulness (DM) and wellbeing, including positive psychological wellbeing and poor physical and mental health in first responders, including police, fire and emergency medical personnel. Methods: A systematic review was conducted, with a search of four academic databases (PsycInfo, Medline, CINAHL, EmCare). Following duplicate removal, screening and forward and backward searches, 27 papers reporting findings from 22 quantitative studies were identified. Quality appraisal of the studies was completed, with a subsection of these peer-rated to increase reliability. Data were extracted, then analysed using narrative synthesis. Results: The findings suggest that DM is positively related to wellbeing in first responders, in terms of higher positive psychological wellbeing and fewer mental and physical health symptoms. Greater DM also attenuated the negative effect of mental health symptoms and stress on their wellbeing. The results indicate that DM may benefit first responders’ wellbeing through its influence on using more adaptive coping mechanisms and perceiving oneself as having greater coping resources and fewer stressors. However, the lack of longitudinal research limits conclusions about the direction of causation in these relationships. Conclusions: DM appears to be positively related to wellbeing outcomes in first responders. Further research exploring positive outcomes, the long-term impact of DM on wellbeing, and under-represented first responder populations would add to the current evidence base.
While the positive impact of meritocratic beliefs on career development is widely acknowledged, little is known regarding how and when meritocratic beliefs contribute to individuals’ career adaptability (CAAS). This work tested the multiple mediation effects of positive affect and career self-efficacy (CSE) between meritocratic beliefs and CAAS and the moderating role of social class in these relationships. A survey study was completed with 409 Chinese college students (46.90% females). The results revealed a positive contribution of meritocratic beliefs to CAAS. Positive affect and CSE were found to sequentially mediate the relationship between meritocratic beliefs and CAAS. Social class could moderate the relationship between meritocratic beliefs and CSE, and the benefit of meritocratic beliefs on CAAS via CSE was only significant among lower-social-class individuals. This work contributes to a deeper understanding of how meritocratic beliefs benefit disadvantaged groups and offers valuable guidance for improving college students’ CAAS.
Negative self-referent memory bias (the preferential memory for negative self-referent information) is a well-known symptom of depression and a risk factor for its development, maintenance, and recurrence. Evidence shows its potential as an add-on tool in clinical practice. However, it is unclear which self-referent memory bias measure(s) could be clinically relevant. Here, as a first step, we investigate which measures best differentiate current depression status and track depressive symptom severity most closely. The total sample (N= 956) from three (naturalistic) psychiatric cohorts with matched controls was divided into a current depression, remitted depression, and non-disordered control group. Self-referent memory bias task measures were calculated and the drift diffusion model (DDM) was applied to assess underlying components of the cognitive self-referent decision making process. Measures were compared between groups and linear regression models were applied to assess their association with depressive symptom severity. The number of negative endorsed words differentiated best between depression status while a combination of the number of positive endorsed words, self-referent negative memory bias, and positive drift rate was most strongly associated with depressive symptom severity. Our results give direction to the clinical implementation of this task. Its value in assessing, monitoring, and predicting depressive state and trait in clinical settings requires further investigation.
BackgroundSchizophrenia is a multifactorial disorder influenced by various biological and psychosocial factors. This study aimed to determine the characteristics and associated factors of expressed emotion (EE) among caregivers of individuals with schizophrenia.MethodsFrom May to July 2024, a cross-sectional study was conducted with caregivers of individuals with schizophrenia across multiple hospitals in Southern Thailand. The study utilized four questionnaires: (1) Demographic inquiry, (2) The Thai Expressed Emotion Scale (TEES), (3) The Thai General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12), and (4) The Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI). Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics. The groups analyzed were compared using the Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) or Kruskal-Wallis test, the Student t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test, and the Chi-square test. Multiple logistic regression analysis was performed.ResultsIn a survey of 200 caregivers, 70.5% were female. They had a median caregiving duration of 108 months, with an interquartile range (IQR) of 36 to 180 months. Notably, 51.0% of caregivers reported no mental health problems, as assessed by the GHQ-12, while 29.0% indicated experiencing severe burden. The median score on the TEES was 99.0, with an IQR of 84.7 to 109.0. Furthermore, 46.0% of caregivers reported TEES above the median score, indicating high levels of EE. There was also a significant correlation between caregiver burden and EE scores. Those experiencing severe burden had an EE score of 110.5 compared to 94.0 for those with no burden, which was statistically significant (p= 0.001). Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that high EE among caregivers was associated with factors such as the patient’s duration of illness, caregiver occupation, and mental health status.ConclusionNearly half of the caregivers of individuals with schizophrenia reported high levels of EE, with increased caregiver burden associated with higher EE levels. Factors such as the duration of the patient’s illness, caregiver occupation, and mental health status were also associated with higher EE. Moreover, caregivers’ emotional responses and expressions are complex and dynamic. Thus, focusing on providing support to caregivers can have a positive impact on the well-being of both caregivers and individuals with schizophrenia.
Visual perspective taking often involves transitioning between perspectives, yet the cognitive mechanisms underlying this process remain unclear. The current study draws on insights from task- and language-switching research to address this gap. In Experiment 1, 79 participants judged the perspective of an avatar positioned in various locations, observing either the rectangular or the square side of a rectangular cube hanging from the ceiling. The avatar's perspective was either consistent or inconsistent with the participant’s, and its computation sometimes required mental transformation. The task included both single-position blocks, in which the avatar's location remained fixed across all trials, and mixed-position blocks, in which the avatar's position changed across trials. Performance was compared across trial types and positions. In Experiment 2, 126 participants completed a similar task administered online, with more trials, and performance was compared at various points within the response time distribution (vincentile analysis). Results revealed a robust switching cost. However, mixing costs, which reflect the ability to maintain multiple task sets active in working memory, were absent, even in slower response times. Additionally, responses to the avatar's position varied as a function of consistency with the participants' viewpoint and the angular disparity between them. These findings suggest that perspective switching is costly, people cannot activate multiple perspectives simultaneously, and the computation of other people's visual perspectives varies with cognitive demands.
BackgroundPoor quality of life in adults with anorexia nervosa (AN) and persistent high rates of readmission highlight the necessity of developing interventions to optimize treatment outcomes. ECHOMANTRA is a novel online intervention based on interventions for carers (Experienced Carers Helping Others, ECHO) and patients (Maudsley Model of Anorexia Nervosa Treatment for Adults, MANTRA) with anorexia nervosa. The objective of this paper is to describe the study protocol of a randomized control trial (RCT) aimed at evaluating the efficacy of an adaptation of the ECHOMANTRA for adults AN inpatients and outpatients, and their carers, to be implemented as an add-on to treatment-as-usual (TAU).MethodsIn a multi − center pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT), 148 adult AN patients, and their carers, will be randomized to receive treatment as usual (TAU) or TAU plus ECHOMANTRA. Assessments will take place at baseline (T0), post-intervention (2-month) (T1), 6-month follow-up (T2), and 12-month follow-up (T3). Primary outcomes will be eating disorder psychopathology and psychological well-being. For carers, outcome variables will include psychological well-being, accommodation and enabling behaviors, expressed emotion, illness burden, quality of life and care skills.DiscussionThis study will provide evidence of the efficacy of this novel, online and protocolized intervention in facilitating the recovery of these patients.Trial registrationISRCTN registry (Identifier: 80253157https://doi.org/10.1186/ISRCTN80253157).
ObjectiveThe Eating Attitudes Test-26 (EAT-26) is considered the screening instrument of choice to identify eating disorders (ED) symptoms in clinical and community populations, showing a classical three-factor structure. This study assessed whether the factor structure of the EAT-26 in patients with ED was stable at admission and discharge from inpatient treatment.MethodsWe administered the EAT-26 to 207 female adolescents with ED at both admission and discharge.ResultsFactor structure of the EAT-26 at admission comprised of four factors and at discharge three factors and 15-item version of the EAT, producing two factors, was considerably more stable at both admission and discharge. Cutoff score of 23 in the EAT-15 better defined patients as improved at discharge than the cutoff score of 20 in the EAT-26.ConclusionDifferent factor structures of the EAT are found in the same population of young females with ED during the acute stage of illness vs. symptomatic improvement. In addition, shorter versions of the EAT with higher cutoff scores may better differentiate between improved and not improved patients at discharge. Findings suggest that using the EAT-15 is more effective for evaluating a population with clinical characteristics of ED.
With the advent of the digital economy and the post-epidemic era, China’s retail enterprises face significant crises and challenges. Enhancing both the in-role and extra-role service performance of sales staff in physical stores is crucial for preserving competitive advantages and sustainable development of retail enterprises. Based on Conservation of Resources theory, this study proposes a moderated mediation model that elucidates how the perceived service climate impacts employee in-role and extra-role service performance through work engagement, as well as the moderating effect of perceived overqualification. Data were collected from 598 physical store sales staff and 117 direct supervisors across 19 retail enterprises using a multi-wave, multi-source survey. Hierarchical regression analysis confirmed our hypotheses, demonstrating that perceived service climate enhances employee in-role and extra-role service performance via the partial mediating effect of work engagement. Moreover, perceived overqualification positively moderates not only the link between perceived service climate and work engagement but also the mediating effects of work engagement between perceived service climate and in-role and extra-role service performance, separately. The theoretical and practical implications of these findings are discussed in detail.
Multiple studies link family conflict to self-harm; however, no research has explored whether family conflict influences adolescents’ likelihood of engaging in a relatively new and destructive behavior known as digital self-harm, or the practice of anonymously posting harmful information about oneself online. Grounded in Agnew’s general strain theory, this study examined the relationship between family conflict and digital self-harm using a sample of 9,819 adolescents from the 2019 Florida Youth Substance Abuse Survey. Logistic regression analyses revealed that, even after accounting for various potential confounding variables, family conflict was positively associated with an increased likelihood of engaging in digital self-harm. Additionally, results from an analysis of indirect effects revealed that this relationship was largely mediated by adolescents’ depressive symptoms. The study concludes with recommendations for reducing both family conflict and digital self-harm.
We examined participants’ abilities to manually estimate one of two perpendicular line segment lengths using curved point-to-point movements. Configurations involved symmetrical, unsymmetrical, and no bisection in upright and rotated orientation alterations to vertical-horizontal (V-H) illusions, where people often perceive longer vertical than horizontal segments for equal segment lengths. Participants used two orthogonally directed movements for length estimations: positively proportional (POS) – where greater fingertip displacement involved longer length estimation between configuration intersection start position and fingertip end, and negatively proportional (NEG) – where greater fingertip displacement from the screen edge start position toward configuration intersection involved a shorter length estimation between configuration intersection and fingertip end. Length estimations followed most standard perceptual aspects of the V-H illusion for POS estimations, yet differed between upright and rotated orientations for the symmetrical configuration. NEG estimations revealed no illusory influences. Use of allocentric programming likely accompanied POS estimations to explain V-H illusory influences on perceptuomotor control.
People are highly motivated to change their behavior. Unfortunately, many people have difficulty doing so. Building on recent theorizing, we propose that having a larger strategy repertoire (or strategy “toolbox”) can help people achieve their goals. In eight samples across several domains, participants (Ntotal= 2347) reported their use of seven strategies that determined their strategy repertoire for a particular goal. Findings indicated that having a larger strategy repertoire predicted goal attainment. These findings replicated across domains (healthy eating, academic performance, saving money), among self-set personal goals, at both the between-person and within-person levels, and were robust to different operationalizations of strategy repertoire, but differed by behavior. Specifically, having a larger strategy repertoire was associated with better subjective goal progress, healthier eating, and more adaptive financial behaviors, but not snack intake or subjective credit score. Together, these findings highlight that having a larger strategy “toolbox” may have important implications for downstream regulation processes, which sets the stage for lasting behavior change.
Studies using the Approach/Avoidance Task (AAT) paradigm have demonstrated that individuals with heightened levels of spider-fear, as compared to lower levels of spider-fear, are characterised by biased action tendencies, indicated by speeded completion of movements that increase apparent distance between spider-stimuli and themselves (push movements), compared to movements that decrease apparent distance between spider-stimuli and themselves (pull response). Research using training variants of the AAT has also demonstrated that this pattern of action tendencies can be attenuated amongst individuals with heightened spider-fear. However, the effect of this manipulation on behaviour and emotion in the presence of a spider has not been examined. Eighty-eight participants who reported relatively high levels of spider-fear completed a procedure designed to either attenuate avoidance action tendencies for spider stimuli (Approach Spider Condition) or have no impact on action tendencies for spider stimuli (Control Condition). Action tendencies were assessed before and after the manipulation. Participants then completed a Behavioural Approach Task that recorded the number of steps voluntarily taken toward a spider and level of self-reported anxiety at each step. Analyses revealed that avoidance action tendencies to spider stimuli were attenuated in the Approach Spider Condition as compared to the Control Condition following the experimental manipulation, as intended. However, participants in each condition did not differ in behavioural or emotional measures recorded during the approach task. These findings replicate research indicating avoidance action tendencies to spider stimuli can be manipulated amongst individuals with heightened spider-fear, though suggest that their manipulation may not influence ‘real world’ behavioural or emotional responding to spiders.
The collective memory of a given community is premised on the happenings of the past which in turn provides identity to the social groups. Multiple facets influence collective memory in groups, resulting in a shift in collective memory and the group’s social identity. In the present world, the memory of humans heavily relies on digital and technological devices, which results in a bearing on the psychological and social facets of social groups. This has a profound effect on the social identity of the groups, either directly or indirectly. Several studies have shown that social identity has both positive and negative consequences on the psychological and physical well-being of people who belong to social groups. The paper employs social identity and collective memory as a theoretical base in analyzing the filmWall-Eto illustrate our excessive dependence on technology. The paper discusses how the humans in the filmWall-Ehave forfeited their collective memory and social identity. Furthermore, it highlights the fact that excessive reliance and increased consumerism of technology affect the physical well-being of humanity. The paper concludes that change or loss of social identity due to abundant reliance on technology is bound to influence society’s well-being.
ObjectiveTo identify the tools used to assess eating behaviors in individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and summarize their distribution, citation rates, journal publication, JCR scores, and psychometric properties.MethodsA literature review was conducted to identify studies on eating behavior in individuals with ASD. The search included various descriptors and combinations of keywords in databases such as Medline/PubMed, Science Direct, Scopus, SciELO, and Web of Science. The studies were filtered to focus on articles published in the last five years. Thirty-seven relevant studies were identified and analyzed to summarize the tools used, their distribution in the literature, citation rates, and psychometric properties.ResultsThirty-seven relevant studies were identified. The Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders published the most studies (5). The Brief Autism Mealtime Behavior Inventory (BAMBI) was the most frequently used instrument, appearing in 15 studies, followed by the Behavioral Pediatrics Feeding Assessment Scale (BPFAS) in 8 studies. Both instruments demonstrated solid psychometric properties, with BAMBI showing good internal consistency (α = 0.88) and BPFAS a Cronbach’s alpha of 0.82.ConclusionMost of the instruments used in studies on eating behavior in individuals with ASD demonstrate satisfactory psychometric properties. BAMBI and BPFAS stand out for their widespread use but are limited to covering only specific age ranges.
The current study aimed to better understand which psychological problems are most impairing, as measured by quality of life and perceived parental psychopathology associations among emerging adults. Participants included 602 college-attending emerging adults who were recruited through an online participant pool at a large Southern United States university. Participants completed measures about quality of life, parental psychological problems, and personal psychological problems. Results indicated that when compared to emerging adults not at-risk for psychological problems, emerging adults at-risk for anxiety problems reported lower psychological, social, and total quality of life and higher levels of parental psychopathology across all domains. Additionally, emerging adults at-risk for anxiety problems reported better physical quality of life than emerging adults at-risk for any other psychological problem and remarkably lower parental psychopathology than emerging adults at-risk for antisocial problems and autism problems. The current study identified the most impairing self-reported psychological problems in emerging adults by assessing quality of life differences.
The use of literal prompts (LPs) and inferential prompts (IPs) in shared book reading (SBR) facilitates children’s use of language and promotes their thinking and understanding about the stories discussed and beyond. Furthermore, SBR provides a platform for mildly autistic children to have multiple rounds of communication with educators. This study investigated the contribution of LPs and IPs on the language development and affective factors of language learning in mildly autistic children. This study included 187 mildly autistic Chinese children who were stratified by random sampling and assigned into three groups (LP, IP and control). The mildly autistic children’s language skills were tested immediately before and after the 12-week SBR intervention. Their parents were also included in this study. The results indicated that using prompts had positive effects on the mildly autistic children’s language skills and on the affective factors central to language development. Moreover, LPs were beneficial in fostering mildly autistic children’s affective factor development, whilst IPs fostered their Chinese word reading and listening comprehension skills. These findings indicated the benefits of using prompts during parent–child SBR, along with the extent to which prompts contribute to different language skills and affective factors central to language development in mildly autistic children.
Cognitive Stimulation Therapy (CST) is a group psychosocial intervention for people with mild-to-moderate dementia. Despite evidence supporting its effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and cultural adaptation internationally, CST has yet to be implemented in routine practice outside of the UK. This study consisted of multiple phases. In the first phase, we engaged stakeholders to explore the barriers and facilitators to CST implementation in Tanzania. In the second phase, we developed implementation strategies. In the third phase, we tested these strategies in a study of CST in a tertiary hospital in northern Tanzania. The Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) guided the study. We conducted stakeholder engagement with decision-makers, healthcare professionals, people with dementia and their family caregivers (n= 49) to identify barriers and facilitators to implementation. We developed an implementation plan that included 20 implementation strategies related to 12 CFIR constructs. Subsequently, we tested these strategies by running eight CST groups with 49 participants. In follow-up interviews with people with dementia, carers and healthcare professionals, we identified 18 key CFIR constructs as barriers or facilitators to successfully implementing CST. CST was compatible with the standards of care in a tertiary referral hospital in northern Tanzania. To implement CST in low-resource settings, we recommend running dementia awareness initiatives, screening for dementia in outpatients and community settings, developing a train-the-trainer model, employing a task-shifting approach, and creating a dementia-friendly space for dementia services. Our findings can inform future efforts to implement CST and other psychosocial interventions for dementia in low-resource settings.
Deverbal formations in Greek, e.g.miˈrazo‘to distribute’< ˈmirazma‘distributing’ are considered morphologically complex lexical items. Previous psycholinguistic studies in Greek and English already highlighted the importance of lexical category and argument structure of the base verb in the processing of deverbal pseudowords violating constraints pertaining to these properties. A similar study in Slovenian brought into light the role of aspectual properties of the base verb during deverbal word processing. The present study revisits the role of aspect in morphological processing of deverbal word formations by looking at Greek. To this end, an offline acceptability judgement task and an online lexical decision task were conducted using different types of pseudowords, violating derivational rules. Results provide evidence that aspect affects deverbal pseudoword processing in Greek. Aspectual rules have a distinct role in relation to categorial and argument structure ones for the suffix that creates formations with unambiguous, eventive readings and which has clear event implications but not for other suffixes. The current study extends the literature to include the role of this feature in the processing of deverbal formations.
IntroductionThe COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown experience required finding new resources and lifestyle changes. Understanding people’s behaviors during the pandemic and its potential effects on mental health indicators and well-being is essential for future directions. This study aimed to compare mental health symptoms during Portugal’s first lockdown with normative data, analyze the perceived utility of activities during this period, and explore how these perceptions related to individuals’ mental health indicators and emotion regulation processes (e.g., mindfulness and compassion).MethodsA sample comprising 238 (186 women and 52 men) participants completed an online survey during the first lockdown of the COVID-19 pandemic in April (M1) and June (M2) 2020. The survey addressed the perceived utility of various activities to deal with the lockdown (e.g., exercise). It also included self-report measures of psychopathological symptoms and emotion regulation processes.ResultsNo differences were found between depression and anxiety scores (at M1 and M2) and Portuguese normative pre-pandemic data. During the lockdown, perceived stress was higher than normative data. Reading, being outdoors, talking with friends, video calls, and helping others were scored as very useful. Mean comparisons of emotion regulation processes and psychopathological symptoms based on the utility of activities to deal with the lockdown were reported.DiscussionActivities related to meaningful connections with others and personal activities may be encouraged as protective activities buffering the potentially harmful effect of isolation and external and uncontrollable threats. These findings highlighted the importance of promoting personal health behaviors and emphasize real social connections (e.g., social activities prescriptions).
The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of using probiotics with strains related to dopamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid production on clinical features of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and/or attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This randomized, controlled trial involved 38 children with ADHD and 42 children with ASD, aged 5–16 years, who received probiotics (Lactiplantibacillus plantarumandLevilactobacillus brevis109/cfu/daily) or placebo for 12 weeks. Parent-reported symptoms were assessed using Conners' 3rd-Ed and the Social Responsiveness Scale Test, 2nd-Ed (SRS-2), and children completed the Conners Continuous Performance Test, 3rd-Ed (CPT 3) or Conners Kiddie CPT, 2nd-Ed (K-CPT 2). Executive functions, quality of life and sleep patterns were also parent-assessed. Intention-to-treat analyses, controlling for sociodemographic and nutritional covariates, revealed no significant inter-group differences in parent-reported or neuropsychological data after the probiotic intervention. However, age-stratified analyses showed improved hyperactivity-impulsivity symptoms in younger children with ASD (Cohen’s d = 1.245) and ADHD (Cohen’s d = 0.692). Intra-group analyses supported these findings in the aforementioned age and intervention group for both diagnoses. An improvement in impulsivity for children with ASD was also observed in the intra-group analysis of the CPT commissions scores (probiotic: p = 0.001, Cohen’s d = -1.216; placebo: p = 0.013, Cohen’s d = -0.721). A better comfort score (quality of life) was shown in children with ASD (probiotic: p = 0.010, Cohen’s d = 0.722; placebo: p = 0.099, Cohen’s d = 0.456). The probiotics used, may improve hyperactivity-impulsivity in children with ASD or/and ADHD and quality of life in children with ASD. Further research is warranted to explore probiotics as an adjunctive therapeutic intervention for NDs.Trial registration: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT05167110.
This study investigates the complex relationships among organizationally prescribed perfectionism (OPP), job stress, generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), and self-efficacy in artificial intelligence (AI) use in the context of modern workplaces. Drawing on various theories, we hypothesized that OPP would indirectly affect GAD through job stress, and that self-efficacy in AI use would moderate the OPP-job stress link. Using a time-lagged, three-wave survey design, data were gathered from 421 employees across various industries in South Korea. Structural equation modeling and bootstrapping analyses were employed to test the hypothesized relationships. Results indicated that job stress fully mediated the OPP-GAD link, indicating that OPP primarily influences employee mental health through increased job stress. Moreover, self-efficacy in AI use was found to significantly moderate the association between OPP and job stress, such that members with higher AI self-efficacy experienced less job stress in response to OPP. These findings contribute to our understanding of how perfectionistic organizational cultures impact employee well-being through increased job stress. Specifically, our results show that employees with higher AI self-efficacy experienced 21.5% less job stress in response to organizational perfectionism, suggesting that technological competencies serve as a critical buffer against workplace stressors. This study offers important practical implications for organizations, including: (1) the need to balance performance expectations with support systems for employee well-being, (2) the importance of investing in AI training and development programs to enhance employee resilience, and (3) the value of creating organizational cultures that promote both technological adaptation and psychological safety in increasingly AI-integrated work environments.
Despite the widespread prevalence of cancer diagnoses among parents of underage children, there is a limited body of research in this specific area, and even fewer tools have been developed to assess the impact of cancer on parenting roles. The present cross-sectional study aimed to analyze the psychometric properties of the Italian version of the Parenting Concerns Questionnaire (PCQ), including its convergent validity with parents’ and children’s psychological distress. A total of 411 adults with cancer and minor children (i.e., < 18 years old; mean age = 12.15 years; SD = 5.11) completed the PCQ and measures of anxiety, depression, children’s emotional and behavioral problems, and quality of parent–child relationship. Statistical analyses indicated good psychometric properties of the PCQ and demonstrated small to moderate correlations with the psychological distress experienced by both parents (anxiety and depression) and children (emotional and behavioral problems). The PCQ proves to be a valuable screening tool that can be easily used by healthcare professionals to identify specific parenting concerns and challenges faced by parents with cancer.
The purpose of this research is to investigate the social antecedents of academic performance over time, as well as understand if a longitudinal view of performance affords greater understanding of graduation and retention. Academic performance across four years was tracked among 1,911 university students. Embeddedness prior to institutional entry was examined alongside high school grade point average and standardized test scores as predictors of performance improvement over time. Embeddedness was also examined as a potentially stronger predictor of performance improvement among ethnic minorities. Results indicate that Black and Hispanic students with greater social ties were more likely to improve their academic performance over time. Additionally, initial academic performance and improvement in performance over time were uniquely related to graduation and retention rates. These results suggest that performance improvement is a novel and valuable conceptualization of academic performance. Further, universities may promote performance improvement by helping newcomers form bonds with current members. Further research may identify the specific supports current members provide to inform structural solutions of such supports. Such research and policy interventions may be of relatively greater benefit for Black and Hispanic students.
To prevent young children’s injuries, studies have considered both child (e.g., temperament, age, sex) and parent factors (e.g., parental supervision and style, attachment) associated with risk-taking behaviors. Building on risk-taking theory literature, Jonas and Kochanska (Jonas & Kochanska, Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology 46:1573–1583,2018) adapted the dual systems model (Steinberg, Developmental Review 28:78–106,2008) to children and suggested that risk-taking propensity arises from an imbalance between the overactivation of the child’s socioemotional system (sensation seeking or traits of surgency) and the lower cognitive control system (lack of self-regulation or of effortful control). However, from an intergenerational transmission perspective, it is relevant to consider the role both parents’ and the children’s socioemotional and cognitive control systems have on a child’s risk-taking behaviors. The current longitudinal study is the first to examines sensation seeking and lack of self-regulation in parents in addition to the child’s surgency-effortful control imbalance to understand the child’s risk-taking behaviors. The sample comprised 177 two-parent families (89 boys) observed at two time points (child age ranges: 12–18 months and 24–30 months). Both parents provided sociodemographic information and completed self-reported questionnaires on sensation seeking and self-regulation, child’s temperament and risk-taking behaviors. Results showed that fathers’ higher sensation-seeking and mothers’ lack of self-regulation were associated with higher children’s risk-taking behaviors. After controlling for these parent factors and child sex, child surgency-effortful imbalance was strongly associated with higher children’s risk-taking behaviors. An adapted dual systems model including both parents (sensation seeking and self-regulation) and children (surgency-effortful imbalance) seems a promising avenue to a fuller understanding of children’s risk-taking behaviors.
The Youth Risk of Cognitive Impairment Toolkit (Youth ROCIT) is a free, online written guide designed to help health and mental health workforces screen for risk of cognitive difficulties in young people aged 12–25. The Behaviour Change Wheel (BCW) provides a structured approach to behaviour change initiatives for workforces and can be utilised to support the implementation of tools like the Youth ROCIT. Using a modified BCW method, this project aimed to develop and pilot a tailored behaviour change approach to improve screening for cognitive impairment risk using the Youth ROCIT in an Australian youth (12–18 years) drug and alcohol service. The BCW method was applied to understand and address behavioural drivers of cognitive screening within a multidisciplinary team, and design strategies to support the implementation of the Youth ROCIT in routine clinical practice. Data on context, practices, barriers, enablers, and perspectives on the Youth ROCIT were collected through surveys, interviews, and interactive workshops. Routine service data from the patient management system was used to understand behaviour change. Multiple strategies were identified to support the implementation of the Youth ROCIT and the methodology was seen as acceptable and feasible by implementation facilitators and workshop participants. The service team rated the Youth ROCIT as acceptable, appropriate, and feasible, and reported high intentions to use the tool with young people. Service data showed changes in practice following the initiative. The BCW provided an acceptable and feasible framework for developing strategies to support the implementation of the Youth ROCIT in a youth health service setting.
Emotion socialization is a dynamic transactional process that unfolds at the moment during parent-child interactions. To better understand these transactions (both parent-driven and child-driven) in early childhood, we conducted a lag-sequential analysis examining sequential contingency between maternal emotion coaching and child emotion regulation at ages 3 and 4 years. Mother-child dyads in the southeastern United States (N= 208 for age 3 timepoint [101 boys, 107 girls] and 227 for age 4 timepoint [115 boys, 112 girls]) participated in a laboratory etch-a-sketch task, which was videorecorded and later observationally coded for maternal coaching of both positive and negative emotions and for child emotion regulation (indexed as compliance, engagement, and low frustration) at 30-s intervals. At age 3, we found two reciprocal sequences: (1) When mothers coached positive emotions, children were subsequently more likely to show compliance, and when children complied, mothers were subsequently more likely to coach their positive emotions; (2) when mothers coached negative emotions, children were subsequently more likely to display frustration, and when children showed frustration, mothers were subsequently more likely to coach their negative emotions. At age 4, we only found parent-driven, positive emotion–related sequences: when mothers coached positive emotions, children were subsequently more likely to show compliance and engagement. Findings shed light on the distinct functions of positive and negative emotions as well as the intricacy of dynamic emotion socialization transactions in relation to child emotion regulation during early childhood.
BackgroundDespite being the most prevalent eating disorder, Binge eating disorder (BED) remains largely unrecognized and lacks awareness among the general public, where it is also highly stigmatized. Common stigma surrounding BED includes the belief that individuals with this disorder are responsible for their condition and lack willpower and self-control. Research on BED recognition and stigma among lay adults is scarce. Enhancing public recognition of BED and reducing the stigma associated with it is crucial, as this could significantly improve access to treatment. The aim of the present study was to examine BED recognition and stigma within an adult community sample, and to identify associated respondent characteristics, including sociodemographic and psychosocial factors.MethodsA sample of 894 adults (88.6% women; Mage= 35.20 ± 14.52) completed an online survey. Participants were presented with a vignette depicting a woman with BED and obesity, followed by questionnaires assessing BED recognition, stigma, and other respondent characteristics. Independent samples t-tests were performed to compare participants who recognized BED in the vignette with those who did not, based on sociodemographic characteristics (i.e., gender, age, income, education) and psychosocial variables (i.e., explicit and internalized weight bias, familiarity with BED). A multiple linear regression analysis was performed to identify the sociodemographic and psychosocial variables that were the most important in explaining the variance in stigma towards BED.ResultsResults indicated that 33% of participants identified BED as the main problem in the vignette. Those who recognized BED were younger, more educated, more familiar with BED, and exhibited lower levels of stigma towards BED. The most significant factor in explaining stigma towards BED was explicit weight bias, particularly attributing obesity to a lack of willpower and disliking people with obesity. Identifying as a man and older age were also associated with greater stigma towards BED.ConclusionThe findings of the current study highlight the importance of comprehensive public awareness campaigns to improve recognition of BED and to reduce associated stigma.
This study investigates the intricate relationships between managers’ bottom-line attitude (BLA) and counterproductive work behavior (CWB) among employees in the context of Egypt’s higher education institutions. Specifically, it examines the extent to which BLA influences CWB and explores the mediating role of organizational cynicism in this relationship. Additionally, the study posits that the impact of organizational cynicism on CWB is further intensified by the moderating effect of ethical individuality. Employing a cross-sectional research design, data were collected from a sample of 357 academic and administrative employees across various higher education institutions in Egypt. The theoretical framework was empirically tested using Composite-Based Structural Equation Modeling (CB-SEM), providing robust insights into the complex interplay between the variables. The findings reveal a significant direct link between BLA and CWB, indicating that a strong focus on bottom-line outcomes by managers is associated with higher incidences of counterproductive behaviors among employees. Furthermore, organizational cynicism was found to mediate this relationship, suggesting that BLA fosters cynicism among employees, which in turn, leads to increased CWB. Importantly, the study highlights the moderating role of ethical individuality, where the influence of organizational cynicism on CWB is amplified among employees with lower levels of ethical individuality. This indicates that employees’ ethical standards and personal values can significantly shape the extent to which organizational cynicism translates into counterproductive behaviors.
Despite the importance of romantic relationships for psychological health, there is limited research exploring how communication about relationships unfolds in families during adolescence and emerging adulthood (beyond the narrower topic of sex). As such, the current research explored the nature of caregiver-child communication about relationships and assessed whether this communication is associated with young people’s psychological health. We hypothesized that young people will have fewer and lower quality conversations about relationships in comparison to other developmental goals but that communication quality would improve with age. We also hypothesized that the quality of relationships communication would predict psychological health as indexed by self-esteem and psychological distress. In a series of two survey studies, adolescents (n= 129) and emerging adults (n= 716) reported on the frequency and quality of communication about relationships (and other developmentally-relevant topics including education, career, race/ethnicity) with their primary female caregiver and reported on their own psychological health. A subset of Study 1 participants additionally completed a daily diary assessing the frequency with which they discussed these topics and/or reported on their psychological health a second time. Results showed that conversations about relationships generally occurred less frequently than other topics and were also seen as the lowest in quality across assessments, though quality did improve with age. Moreover, even when controlling for communication about other topics, the frequency and quality of relationships communication positively predicted aspects of psychological health. Results indicate that young people may benefit from interventions designed to improve family communication about relationships.
Behavior-analytic conferences are integral to dissemination and continuing one’s education and professional development. Organizations that host conferences are charged with inviting speakers to serve as keynote or invited speakers who will provide attendees with informative and engaging behavior-analytic content. However, some research suggests discrepancies between the number of women and men who are invited to serve as keynote and invited speakers at conferences. Research also indicates that the same individuals are habitually serving as keynote and invited speakers at behavior-analytic conferences. These discrepancies in opportunities to serve as keynote and invited speakers can potentially limit the career growth of emerging professionals and the information being disseminated. In the current article, we surveyed all state and regional behavior analysis organizations and analyzed their policies for inviting individuals to speak at their conference. Results indicated that individuals are asked to serve as keynote and invited speakers primarily because of their popularity. Implications and recommendations for designing policies for selecting and inviting conference speakers are discussed.
To develop a Questionnaire of College Students’ Experience of Familiarity with Classmates (QCSEFC) and to test its reliability and validity. Combined with open-ended questionnaire surveys, interviews and literature analysis, the theoretical structure of the college students’ experience of familiarity with classmates was constructed and the preliminarily questionnaire was compiled. A total of 2,301 college students were randomly divided into two groups, with each group used for exploratory factor analysis and confirmatory factor analysis. Additionally, 1,680 and 197 college students were selected separately for construct validity testing and test-retest reliability testing. The Subjective Closeness Index, Friendship Quality Inventory, Inclusion of the Other in the Self Scale and the Actual Closeness Scale were used to test the validity of the criterion. The questionnaire contained 21 items, across 4 dimensions (expectations of shared activities,frequency of interaction,positive experienceanddepth of understanding). Confirmatory factor analysis suggests that the four-factor structural model fits well (χ2/df= 6.98, RMR = 0.044, NFI = 0.94, CFI = 0.93, IFI = 0.94, GFI = 0.89, RMSEA = 0.07). The construct validity showed that the scores of each factor and the total score of the questionnaire were positively correlated with the total scores of the criterion questionnaires (r= .49–0.75,P< .01). The Cronbach’s α coefficients, the split-half reliability and the test-retest reliability of the total questionnaire ranged 0.71 to 0.96. The Questionnaire of College Students’ Experience of Familiarity with Classmates (QCSEFC) demonstrates satisfactory validity and reliability.
This study investigated the potential effectiveness, feasibility, acceptability, and putative mechanisms of change of Narrative Exposure Therapy (NET) delivered via videoconferencing with young people who witnessed domestic violence. A naturalistic, mixed-method, AB, interventional single case design was used. Five female adolescents aged 13–17 years were recruited from a Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service in the United Kingdom and attended 4–10 video-sessions of the child-friendly NET protocol. Participants completed questionnaires assessing posttraumatic stress symptoms (PTSS), general psychological distress, and trauma memory quality, wore a heart rate (HR) monitor assessing habituation, and were offered a Change Interview. At post-intervention, three participants showed reliable improvement in PTSS, but only one showed clinically significant change. One participant also demonstrated reliable improvement in general psychological distress. Effect size estimates ranged from moderate to very large and indicated change in the desired direction for all but one participant; estimated effects for general psychological distress were more modest. Three participants showed reductions in trauma memory quality, indicating increased integration. Within-session habituation was observed for all participants with available HR data; between-session habituation was also recorded for two of them. The lifeline was mentioned as a helpful aspect of NET, the video delivery was considered both a barrier and a facilitator to engagement, and positive or mixed changes were reported by two participants. Future research with more control and larger samples is needed to answer questions on generality of findings and impact of online delivery; future studies may also include longer follow-up periods and investigate other outcomes.Trial registration numberNCT04866511 (ClinicalTrials.gov).
The term “complex needs” has been used to describe young people who have a range of multiple and co-occurring problems that can be caused by individual level (e.g., psychosocial needs) and broader social-economic factors (e.g., homelessness, child maltreatment, justice system involvement). Coordinating the multiple services required to support these young people and successfully engaging them in services can be challenging. The purpose of this study was to gain deeper insight into the barriers to, and strategies for, service engagement among young people who require support from multiple services. Interviews and focus groups (N = 12) were conducted with relevant government and non-government stakeholders in an Australian jurisdiction to obtain qualitative insights into barriers and strategies for effective service engagement. Thematic analysis identified 20 principal themes that were differentiated into two overarching categories relating to service engagement: 1) Barriers, and 2) Strategies, and across three levels: 1) Systems; 2) Services; and 3) Individuals. Many of the strategies to facilitate engagement were applicable across all three levels. For example, ‘flexibility’ was identified as a facilitator of service engagement from the individual practitioner level to broader service and system structures. This study highlights barriers that need to be overcome, and strategies that can be employed, to facilitate engagement between services and young people who have complex needs. There is a need to create a service environment that is adaptive to the needs of young people rather than one which requires these young people to adapt to any particular service.
Research on individual differences in the degree to which individuals distort information before decision-making is scant though previous research has well documented the predecisional information distortion—a tendency to make a biased decision by evaluating information in such a way as to support concurrent preferences. Focusing on the relationship between regulatory focus and consistency, the present research showed that prevention-focused (vs. promotion-focused) individuals made a greater level of predecisional distortion. Findings from the two studies suggested that those with a prevention focus tended to stick to their initially preferred choice, evaluated subsequent neutral attribute information accordingly, and made a more biased decision than those with a promotion focus.
Willingness to communicate (WTC) is important in English as a Foreign Language (EFL) classrooms as engaging in discourse helps to promote students’ language learning skills. Classroom belongingness and classroom enjoyment have been shown to mediate students’ engagement in classroom activities, as well as their relatedness to fellow students. It is therefore suggested that classroom belongingness and enjoyment have an impact on WTC. Despite this potential link, no research has explored the relationship between classroom belongingness, classroom enjoyment, and WTC among elementary students studying EFL. To address this gap, 300 EFL elementary school learners in Iran completed a questionnaire measuring classroom belonging, classroom enjoyment, and WTC. Results indicated that there was a positive and significant correlation among classroom belonging, classroom enjoyment, and WTC. This study highlights the importance of EFL students’ classroom belonging and enjoyment in their WTC and provides several possible explanations for these correlations. These include the role of respect and support from teachers and peers, learners’ engagement, and the fostering of positive relationships and environments.
Acceptance-based skills are widely used in psychological treatments, yet evidence regarding the effectiveness of acceptance as a standalone strategy for downregulating negative emotions is mixed. This study compared two emotion regulation skills from Dialectical-Behavior Therapy (DBT): an acceptance-based skill that encourages radical acceptance of reality (i.e., Radical Acceptance) and a cognitive-change-based skill that encourages reappraisal of negative events (i.e., Check the Facts). In a single session, 92 healthy young adults were randomly assigned to use radical acceptance (N= 46) or check the facts (N= 46) to cope with a personally distressing event. Before and after the session, participants completed an independent emotion regulation task involving exposure to aversive stimuli to assess their ability to engage in acceptance and cognitive reappraisal. The results showed that negative affect induced by the personal distressing event fully returned to baseline among those who used radical acceptance, but not among those who used check the facts. On the emotion regulation task, radical acceptance enhanced the ability to use both acceptance (particularly nonjudgmental awareness) and cognitive reappraisal to downregulate negative emotion more effectively than check the facts. These findings suggest that radical acceptance not only functions as a robust standalone method for emotion regulation but also as a catalyst for other emotion regulation strategies such as those based on cognitive change.
Empathy connects us but strains under demanding settings. This study explored how third parties evaluated AI-generated empathetic responses versus human responses in terms of compassion, responsiveness, and overall preference across four preregistered experiments. Participants (N= 556) read empathy prompts describing valenced personal experiences and compared the AI responses to select non-expert or expert humans. Results revealed that AI responses were preferred and rated as more compassionate compared to select human responders (Study 1). This pattern of results remained when author identity was made transparent (Study 2), when AI was compared to expert crisis responders (Study 3), and when author identity was disclosed to all participants (Study 4). Third parties perceived AI as being more responsive—conveying understanding, validation, and care—which partially explained AI’s higher compassion ratings in Study 4. These findings suggest that AI has robust utility in contexts requiring empathetic interaction, with the potential to address the increasing need for empathy in supportive communication contexts.
Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a global public health issue that harms both mental and physical health. Sexual and gender minority individuals are more vulnerable to this type of violence due to a history of marginalization, discrimination, and social stigma, which exacerbate the risks and barriers to seeking help. This study aims to map the literature for identifying factors linked to IPV in the LGBTQ + community. A Scope review was conducted by searching databases (Scopus, PubMed, PsycInfo, Scielo, and Pepsic). A total of 143 articles met the final inclusion criteria. Through thematic analysis, three main themes emerged: “Characteristics of Articles on IPV among LGBTQ + Individuals,” “Presentation and Specifics of IPV among LGBTQ + Individuals,” and “Risk and Protective Factors for Different Types of IPV among LGBTQ + Individuals.” Results revealed a prevalence of US-based psychology research, with a focus on Western samples, limiting generalizability. Disproportionate rates of IPV were found among transgender and non-binary individuals, as well as bisexual individuals. Concealing minority identity and lack of professional training hindered identification and help-seeking. Healthcare professionals should be aware of the disproportionate risk of IPV in LGBTQ + populations as more intersectional research and expanded clinical guidelines are needed. Specific areas for future research include the impact of cultural differences on violence experiences and the development of targeted interventions for non-Western sexual and gender minority populations. Despite limitations, this scoping review provides valuable insights. By influencing existing clinical practices, this study underscores the importance of tailored support and comprehensive training for healthcare providers.
ObjectivesPursuing a research postgraduate (RPg) degree is a major life event and could be stressful. The current study aims to explore the effectiveness of an online eight-week mindfulness-based intervention on improving wellbeing and alleviating illbeing among a group of RPg students using a randomized waitlist-controlled design.MethodsA total of 88 RPg students, either studying in Hong Kong or Macau, were recruited (43 were randomized into the immediate intervention group; 67 females; mean age = 27.7; SD = 4.60). The “Finding Peace in a Frantic World” was adopted as the mindfulness-based program. Linear mixed models were applied to test the effects of the intervention on trait mindfulness, compassion, wellbeing related measures (i.e., subjective wellbeing, resilience, wellbeing literacy) and illbeing related measures (i.e., emotional and sleeping disturbances), while controlling for the effects of age and gender. The intervention group was also assessed at two-month follow-up to evaluate the sustained effects.ResultsThe results revealed that participants from the intervention group showed increased resilience (b= 0.88,p= .012), wellbeing literacy (b= 2.52,p= .04), trait mindfulness (b= 5.16,p= .006), and decreased emotional disturbances (b=-8.24,p= .015), while there were no changes in subjective wellbeing, sleeping quality, and self-compassion or compassion towards others compared to the waitlist controls. Positive effects were sustained after two months in the intervention group.ConclusionsThis study provides evidence for online mindfulness training in alleviating RPg students’ emotional disturbance and supporting their resilience and wellbeing literacy.RegistrationThe study was retrospectively registered with the ISRCTN Registry on 11/11/2022 (registration number: ISRCTN18262344).
Drawing on the group engagement model, we propose that the relationship between perceived supervisor ethical conviction and employees’ ethical voice is serially mediated by self-perceived status and moral ownership, as moderated by perceived supervisor moral hypocrisy. Using time-lagged data collected from 281 employees of 56 teams in China, our results show that self-perceived status and moral ownership serially mediate the negative relationship between perceived supervisor ethical conviction and ethical voice. Furthermore, when employees perceive their supervisors to be morally hypocritical, they react more negatively to their supervisors’ ethical convictions and are more likely to withhold their ethical voice. Implications of these findings for theory and practice are also discussed.
Our attention can sometimes be disrupted by salient but irrelevant objects in the environment. This distractor interference can be reduced when distractors appear frequently, allowing us to anticipate their presence. However, it remains unknown whether distractor frequency can be learned implicitly across distinct contexts. In other words, can we implicitly learn that in certain situations a distractor is more likely to appear, and use that knowledge to minimize the impact that the distractor has on our behavior? In two experiments, we explored this question by asking participants to find a unique shape target in displays that could contain a color singleton distractor. Forest or city backgrounds were presented on each trial, and unbeknownst to the participants, each image category was associated with a different distractor probability. We found that distractor interference was reduced when the image predicted a high rather than low probability of distractor presence on the upcoming trial, even though the location and (in Experiment 2) the color of the distractor was completely unpredictable. These effects appear to be driven by implicit rather explicit learning. We conclude that implicit learning of context-specific distractor probabilities can drive flexible strategies for the reduction of distractor interference.
The COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges to college students, with students who are parents at risk for amplified difficulties due to the dual responsibilities of parenting and pursuing higher education, but there are few studies that compare the experiences of student parents with non-parenting college students. This study employed a quantitative, cross-sectional approach to compare the needs, concerns, and resources of student parents (n= 167) to those of non-parent students (n= 617) at a mid-sized public university in the Gulf South. Data were collected during the Spring 2021 semester using theHigher Education Student and Student Parent Survey(HESSPS). Overall, a greater proportion of student-parents reported resource awareness, receiving social support, and positive experiences with the pandemic compared to non-parent students; significantly more non-parent students reported financial insecurity, academic difficulties, psychosocial and emotional health issues, and negative pandemic-related experiences. However, when the two groups were divided by age (<25 vs >=25 years), older student parents retained the highest proportion reporting social support and positive pandemic experiences and also had lowest proportion reporting academic difficulties. In contrast, young student parents had the greatest proportion reporting academic difficulties and financial and housing insecurity. Recognizing the heterogeneity of student parents, including their strengths in times of crisis, is critical for addressing equity gaps in higher education and for informing targeted policies and resources so these under-recognized students can accomplish their educational and family goals.
BackgroundThis study aims to examine the temporal changes in the incidence, prevalence, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of depressive disorders as well as its association with age, period, and birth cohort among Chinese from 1990 to 2021, and forecast the future trends of incidence rates and numbers from 2022 to 2030.MethodsData for analysis were obtained from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2021. Joinpoint analysis was used to calculate the annual percentage change (APC) and average annual percent change (AAPC) to describe the rates of depressive disorders. Age, period, and cohort model was utilized to disentangle age, period, and birth cohort effects on rates of depressive disorders. Bayesian age-period-cohort (BAPC) analysis was capitalized to forecast the incidence rates and numbers for different sexes and age groups from 2022 to 2030.ResultsThe age-standardized incidence (ASIR, AAPC: -0.35 [95%CI: -0.65, -0.04]), prevalence (ASPR, AAPC: -0.20 [95%CI: -0.24, -0.16]), and DAYLs (AAPC: -0.28 [95%CI: -0.51, -0.05]) rates of both sexes showed a downward trend from 1990 to 2021, despite a volatility growth in recent years (APC in 2019–2021 of ASPR: 0.96 [95%CI: 0.70, 1.23]). Females exhibited a higher burden of depressive disorders compared to males but experienced a more rapid rate of reduction changes. The burden of depressive disorders was most owing to the age effect and period effect in recent years. The ASIR was predicted to decrease in the whole population (males in 2030: 1,546.3 per 100,000 people; females in 2030: 2,465.8 per 100,000 people), but in children, adolescents, and the elderly demonstrate unfavorable trends in the future.ConclusionThe burden of depressive disorders decreased in China from 1990 to 2021 in terms of age-standardized rates, but increased in recent years. Children, adolescents, and the elderly are the risk groups for future depressive disorders. Considering the large population, the increasing fewer children, and the aging trend, as well as the possible long-term effects of COVID-19 on human psychological burden, more sex-age-sensitive social healthcare programs should be considered in the future to minimize the burden of depressive disorders in China.
Over the past century, numerous studies have examined Jean Piaget’s relationship with psychoanalysis. Until the 1970s, they often emphasized the value of a rapprochement between Piaget and Freud and highlighted the use of Piaget’s ideas in therapeutic practice. Then from the 1980s onwards, several studies focused on the relationship between his work–seen as purely cognitive, to the exclusion of the social and the affective–and his conflicted relationship with his mother. Based on similar sources, particularly his autobiography, these studies led to a reductionist account of his work according to which intellectual content was determined as much by the conflictual relationship as by his alleged autism. The article begins by deconstructing these ideas, showing that in the 1920s Piaget gave an important place to affectivity and the role of the mother in development. It then analyses the Piaget’s family dynamics of the 1919–1920 period, focusing on the family system–Jean’s parents, sisters and brother-in-law–in its relationship to pathology, a dynamic reconstructed with the help of correspondences. The article presents a series of totally unknown episodes in Piaget’s life. It shows that this was an enmeshed family system Minuchin (Families and family therapy, 1974) in which members were both highly involved and dependent on the mother. Within it, Piaget was designated as atherapist, for both the mother and the system, thus reversing standard roles and the classic figure of the designated patient. This research strengthened the few works that have identified either Piaget’s position as a therapist or the importance of his ideas for psychotherapy.
Eating disorders are one of the consequences suffered by individuals who are immersed in intimate partner violence. Knowing that intimate partner violence is a social problem that affects men and women all over the world, it is important to examine and detect which factors affect their physical and emotional health. The aim of the present work was to systematically review the association between IPV and ED. In February 2024, a systematic search of Web of Science, Scopus and PsycINFO databases was performed. A total of 689 papers were obtained, of which 155 were excluded as duplicates, resulting in 535 articles. After reviewing the title, abstract and keywords, 485 articles that did not meet the inclusion criteria were eliminated. Subsequently, the remaining 50 papers were read and discrepancies were resolved, achieving 87.3% agreement among judges. Finally, 40 papers met the inclusion criteria and were included in the systematic review. The results clearly show the relationship between IPV and various EDs. Being a victim of IPV, in its different forms (physical, psychological and sexual), has been related to disorders such as anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa and binge eating disorder. In general, some studies found differences between men and women in the association of the presence of sexual violence and ED symptoms. In conclusion, EDs may be a form of control that individuals exert over their bodies in response to the control exercised by their abusive partners. Addressing the interpersonal sphere by focusing on the management of violent dynamics within the couple is the key to change in individual coping.
The matrilineal Mosuo, an ethnic community of 40,000 individuals in Southwest China, uphold a unique family structure characterized by a maternal kin-based household and a dual-residence “Sese” marriage system. Within this system, children belong to their mother’s household, and men assume the responsibility of caring for their sisters’ children, rather than their own biological offspring. Despite its uniqueness, the relationship dynamics within this family system have not been thoroughly examined. This study sought to investigate these multi-generational family dynamics using a psychological projective test. Participants in the caregiver–child pair (\(\:N=36\), First Generation:\(\:N=17\),\(\:{M}_{age}=40.59,\:SD=6.46\); Second Generation:\(\:N=19,\:{M}_{age}=15.74,\:SD=5.59\)) completed the Family Image Test, providing a visual representation of their perceived relationship structures with various family members. The results revealed a distinct family hierarchy within the matrilineal Mosuo family that emphasizes elders’ authority. Interestingly, younger family members demonstrated a tendency to form closer bonds with their parents than the first generation, without compromising their intimacy with maternal relatives. This suggests the existence of a dual family relationship system that encompasses both the maternal kinship cycle and the nuclear family cycle. The dual relationship system of the matrilineal Mosuo reflects the deep influence of matrilineal lineage, cultural norms, and socialization, interwoven with the impacts of integration with the patrilineal Han Chinese and the transformative effects of contemporary socio-economic conditions.
This study investigated the factors influencing teachers’ organizational commitment in China. We employed a survey design with a sample of 506 full-time teachers from various public middle and high schools across mainland China. Social connectedness, job control, and work engagement were measured using self-reported scales. Structural equation modeling (SEM) was utilized to examine the hypothesized relationships. The results indicated that social connectedness and job control were directly associated with higher levels of organizational commitment among teachers. Furthermore, work engagement played a mediating role in these relationships. Specifically, teachers who felt more connected to their colleagues and had greater control over their work reported higher levels of work engagement, which, in turn, predicted stronger organizational commitment. These findings highlight the importance of fostering a supportive and collaborative school environment to cultivate social connectedness and provide teachers with greater autonomy and decision-making opportunities to enhance job control. By nurturing these factors, schools can promote work engagement, ultimately leading to a more dedicated and committed teaching workforce.
The Ultra-Orthodox (Haredi) sector is religiously conservative, insular, strictly adheres to Judaism, and considers raising children a central value. This study broadens the research on this sector by examining how conservativeness, parental identity, and parenting behaviors predict parental well-being. Parenting behaviors were assessed by the Parenting Pentagon Model (PPM), which includes five constructs that provide a comprehensive picture of parenting:Partnership,Leadership,Love, Independence, andRules. Participants were 355 Haredi parents (279 mothers, 76 fathers), who completed questionnaires addressing primary study variables. The parents reported being more conservative than open, having a fairly strong parental identity, more optimal behaviors on the PPM, and fairly high levels of well-being. A regression analysis showed that having a child with a disability, conservativeness, parental identity, and the PPM all explained significant variance in parental well-being. A greater understanding of this sector can lend insight into other insular, conservative sectors around the world.
Word recognition is a fundamental reading skill that relies on various linguistic and cognitive abilities. While executive functions (EF) have gained attention for their importance in developing literacy skills, their interaction with domain-specific skills in facilitating reading among different learner groups remains understudied. This study examines the relationship between EF, orthographic awareness, morphological awareness, and Chinese word recognition in 204 Chinese as a second language (CSL) students and 419 native Chinese primary students. Our findings reveal that EF indirectly influences word recognition through orthographic awareness, but not through morphological awareness. The result of group comparison indicates that direct and indirect effects of EF on word recognition are evident in both native and CSL groups. Nevertheless, EF plays a more prominent role in CSL learners. These results contribute to our understanding of cognitive skills in reading and offer significant implications for instructional practices.
Creative performances and problem-solving behaviors have been associated with the phenomenon of operant variability. However, to the best of our knowledge, no studies evaluate the effects of operant variability in insightful problem-solving. This research aimed to analyze the relationship between operant variability and its effects on participants’ general performance and type of resolution during a problem situation, using the video game Portal 2. The general procedure had two phases. The Training Phase consisted of a sequence of 12 problems presented in virtual chambers. The Test Phase consisted of a new problem in a new virtual chamber. Twenty-five participants were allocated into five groups: four underwent different Training Phases and one had no training—baseline group (BL). Each one of the four other groups had a different variability training, with or without contact with the objects and stimuli presented in the Test Phase. After the Training Phase, all participants were presented with the same problem in the Test Phase. Our results suggest that operant variability may facilitate insightful behavior depending on the learning history. We discuss the effects of training operant variability and the function of stimuli related to the problem on the type of problem-solving behavior.
Although autistic females often “camouflage” their autism, few studies examine the degree to which adolescent females demonstrate these behaviors in inclusive school settings. We examined: (a) the nature, extent, and underlying motivation of camouflaging in high school; (b) the extent to which autistic girls’ characteristics related to camouflaging settings, people, benefits, costs, and school supports; and (c) how girls’ open-ended descriptions agreed with closed-ended camouflaging ratings. Using quantitative and qualitative analyses, this study examined the extent, domains, costs, and benefits of autistic females’ school-based camouflaging. Thirty-one autistic female adolescents, all included in general education classrooms, answered rating and interview questions. Autistic females camouflaged most often in general education classrooms and with teachers and neurotypical peers that they did not know well; least often at home or with neurodivergent friends. Later age of diagnosis was associated with more camouflaging and camouflaging costs. Qualitative analyses revealed four themes: autistic identity; negative peer experiences; negative consequences of camouflaging; and value of neurodivergent friends. Some qualitative findings converged with quantitative findings, others diverged. Implications are discussed for research and practice for supporting autistic females in general education school settings.
This study investigates parental concerns about the safety of children en route to school in the Western Cape, South Africa, through a survey conducted across nineteen school locations in high- and low-pedestrian crash areas. The density of crash locations closely correlated with low- and higher-income areas. The research reveals a high level of concern among parents in both types of areas, with significantly greater worry prevalent in lower-income neighbourhoods. Although the mode of transportation varied between the two groups, both expressed concerns about their children’s journeys. Notably, these concerns extended beyond traffic safety to include personal security issues related to criminal activity in the neighbourhood. Compared to international studies, parents in this study were more worried about speeding and drunk drivers than general traffic conditions. The study also highlights a stark reality: many parents, especially in lower-income areas, are unable to change their children’s commuting conditions despite their high levels of concern, underscoring the need for targeted interventions. This research emphasises the importance of incorporating parental perspectives in developing strategies to enhance child pedestrian safety.
As mazes are typically complex, cluttered stimuli, solving them is likely limited by visual crowding. Thus, several aspects of the appearance of the maze – the thickness, spacing, and curvature of the paths, as well as the texture of both paths and walls – likely influence the performance. In the current study, we investigate the effects of perceptual aspects of maze design on maze-solving performance to understand the role of crowding and visual complexity. We conducted two experiments using a set of controlled stimuli to examine the effects of path and wall thickness, as well as the style of rendering used for both paths and walls. Experiment1finds that maze-solving time increases with thicker paths (thus thinner walls). Experiment2replicates this finding while also showing that maze-solving time increases when mazes have wavy walls, which are likely more crowded, rather than straight walls. Our findings imply a role of both crowding and figure/ground segmentation in mental maze solving and suggest reformulating the growth cone models.
Here we report four experiments that explore the nature of perceptual averaging. We examine the evidence that participants recover and store a representation of the mean value of a set of perceptual features that are distributed across the optic array. The extant evidence shows that participants are particularly accurate in estimating the relevant mean value, but we ask whether this might be due to processes that reflect assessing featural similarity rather than computing an average. We set out and test detailed predictions that can be used to adjudicate between these averaging and similarity hypotheses. In each experiment, a memory display of randomly positioned bars was briefly presented followed immediately by a probe bar. Participants had to report in a Yes/No task whether the probed feature value was present. In initial experiments, we examine reports of the orientation of white bars and of the color of vertical bars. Then, in companion experiments, we examine reports of the orientation of bars whose color vary, and of the color of bars whose orientation varies. In this way, we test ideas about whether perceptual averaging occurs on a featural dimension that is irrelevant to the task. Currently, it is not known whether perceptual averaging only takes place on a task-relevant dimension or whether it operates more widely.
As personality varies among individuals, even in the same situations, each person carries his or her own unique set of trust in government. The idiosyncrasies of person might have to do with trust in government. An increasing body of empirical work demonstrates the significance of personality in the public sector. However, relatively little is known about how personality affects trust in government. In particular, previous research has not appropriately paid attention on trust in different government institutions. To fill the void, this article aims to examine the impact of personality on trust in government by using the Chinese samples from the World Values Survey. Extraversion is negatively associated with trust in overall government. On the contrary, agreeableness is positively linked to it. Interestingly, neuroticism is positively associated with trust in court and police.
Mental health among medical staff is a critical concern, particularly in the context of the demanding and often stressful nature of healthcare work. Previous research has underscored the buffering effects of self-esteem on psychological well-being, suggesting that higher self-esteem can mitigate the impact of stressors on mental health outcomes. However, the existing literature has not fully explored the nuances of self-esteem profiles within this population and the mechanisms through which it influences mental health. This study aimed to delineate self-esteem subtypes and assess their associations with depression and anxiety in a healthcare context. A cohort of 1027 medical staff were recruited from various institutions in Beijing, China. A latent profile analysis was performed to identify self-esteem subtypes, and mediation analysis was employed to explore the underlying mechanisms of positive coping styles. Our findings revealed two distinct self-esteem profiles: the low self-esteem group (53.2%) and the high self-esteem group (46.8%). Participants in the low self-esteem group reported significantly higher levels of depression and anxiety compared to those in the high self-esteem group (p< 0.001). Mediation analysis demonstrated that positive coping styles significantly mediated the relationship between self-esteem and symptoms of depression and anxiety within both groups. The identification of two distinct self-esteem profiles highlights the heterogeneity in the psychological landscape of medical staff. Medical staff with lower self-esteem were more vulnerable to depression and anxiety, underscoring the need for targeted intervention strategies. Furthermore, the results underscore the critical role of self-esteem and the mediating effect of positive coping styles on the mental health of medical staff, offering insights for targeted psychological support and intervention strategies. Interventions in healthcare practice could focus on enhancing self-esteem and promoting positive coping styles.
The reason why people endorse belief in a just world (BJW), in which each person gets what he deserves and deserves what he gets, is mainly attributed to motivational processes. BJW is also an inter-individual difference, and cognitive preference for less reflective and more intuitive thinking may be a complementary explanation of why people endorse this explicit version of BJW. In a preregistered and highly powered study (N= 46,815), we investigated and showed for the first time a relationship between individuals’ scores on a cognitive performance task and BJW, when controlling for relevant demographics. Our result showed that individuals with a less reflective orientation were more likely to endorse explicit just world beliefs. This is consistent with previous studies based on cognitive reflection test showing that individuals with a lower preference for logical rationality endorsed simplifying worldviews. Our results illustrate that individual differences in cognitive style may produce preferences for specific justice beliefs.
The objective of this study was to adapt and validate the School Anxiety Inventory to a university population, analyzing its factorial structure, internal consistency, convergent validity, and sex differences. The School Anxiety Inventory - University Version (SAI-UV) was administered to a sample of 1,404 Spanish college students (63.82% female and 36.18% male) aged 18 to 49 (M= 21.32). Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses were applied to analyze the dimensional structure of the SAI-UV. Internal consistency (Cronbach’s alpha) and test-retest reliability (3-week interval) were calculated for the SAI-UV scores. The convergent validity of the SAI-UV was also verified, and sex differences were analyzed. A correlated three-factor structure was found, based on the analyzed school situations (Anxiety about Social Evaluation, Anxiety about Academic Failure, and Anxiety about Aggression). Furthermore, a three-factor structure was found for the anxiety response systems (Cognitive Anxiety, Physiological Anxiety, and Behavioral Anxiety). Internal consistency and test-retest reliability were acceptable. The correlations obtained supported the inventory’s convergent validity. As for sex differences, females obtained higher mean scores as compared to males on all of the factors. Therefore, the psychometric properties of the SAI-UV were satisfactory, determining that it has a reliable and valid inventory for the analysis of school anxiety in university students.
The current study aimed to investigate the effect of competitive anxiety and coach leadership style on track and field athlete performance through the moderating role of coping strategies and emotional intelligence. The purposive sampling technique was used, and data was collected from 297 athlete students from 15 public universities in China. The Partial Least Squares–structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) on Smart PLS software version 4 was used to test the hypotheses. It was hypothesized that competitive anxiety and coach leadership style would significantly affect track and field athlete’s performance. The result revealed that coach leadership style has a positive and significant impact on athlete’s performance but competitive anxiety negatively affects athlete’s performance. Furthermore, the moderators used athlete coping strategies and emotional intelligence. The athlete coping strategies have a negative effect on the relationship between competitive anxiety and athlete performance and a positive effect on coach leadership style and athlete performance. Lastly, athlete emotional intelligence also negatively affects the relationship between competitive anxiety and athlete performance. Therefore, research findings propose that coaches ought to establish a nurturing team environment and embrace a constructive mindset to assist athletes in managing the stress of competition caused by their high performance standards. When coaches demonstrate a positive attitude and confidence, athletes may internalize this perspective and utilize it as a coping mechanism. Besides that, athletes need to understand the worth of different coping mechanisms and how much their anxiety levels affect their performance. Moreover, professional sports psychologists and trainers should work together to guide athletes toward reaching their full potential.
Maladaptive cognition has been demonstrated as the mediator in the association between childhood maltreatment and increased aggression. Dehumanization refers to the perception or belief that self (i.e., self-dehumanization) or others (i.e., other-dehumanization) are less than human. The present study aims to test whether self- and other-dehumanization, as maladaptive cognition about self and others, might account for this association. In study 1, 518 undergraduate students (age: M ± SD = 19.39 ± 0.89) were selected by convenient sampling and completed self-reported questionnaires. The relations were further tested in the social exclusion situation in study 2. We invited 136 college students (age: M ± SD = 18.95 ± 0.80) randomly to play the Cyberball game. Once the game finished, dehumanization, implicit (Aggressiveness-Implicit Association Test, Agg-IAT) and explicit (the hot sauce paradigm) aggressive behavior were measured. The results demonstrated that in study 1, self-dehumanization and other-dehumanization mediated the association between childhood maltreatment and trait aggression. In study 2, although the correlation between childhood maltreatment and explicit aggressive behavior was not significant, childhood maltreatment correlated with implicit aggressive behavior significantly. Moreover, the mediating effects of self-dehumanization and other-dehumanization between childhood maltreatment and implicit aggressive behavior were both significant. Our findings revealed denying humanness to self and others as a newly discovered mechanism by which childhood maltreatment increases aggression. This provides clinical implications that reducing self- and other-dehumanization might be an important way to attenuate the potential adverse effects of childhood maltreatment.
Earthquakes are natural disasters whose devastating effects are widely known and in early February 2023, 11 provinces in Türkiye were deeply shaken. It was important to examine the protective factors against the negative effects of earthquakes to develop effective interventions and significant recovery. Hitherto, research in the literature focused more on the negative effects of the disaster and paid less attention to the conditions under which the forces that support well-being, such as optimism, resilience, and mindfulness. Thus, in the current study, we tested the relationship between Strength-based Parenting and depression, anxiety, and stress symptoms and the mediating role of optimism, resilience, and mindfulness in such a relationship. 408 university students who survived the devastating earthquake were included in the study. Participants filled out the Strength-Based Parenting Scale, Optimism and Pessimism Scale, Brief Resilience Scale, Mindfulness Scale, and Depression, Stress, Anxiety Scale (DASS-21). In the results, strength-based parenting was found to be positively correlated with optimism, resilience, and mindfulness while negative correlations were detected with depression, anxiety, and stress. Moreover, optimism, resilience, and mindfulness were found to mediate the relationship between strength-based Parenting and depression, anxiety, and stress. In this manner, the results showed that strength-based parenting has a protective role against the negative effects of the earthquake by contributing to optimism, resilience, and mindfulness. Thus, strength-based parenting appears promising in natural disaster studies.
In an era dominated by big data and artificial intelligence, algorithms serve as facilitators across various application scenarios, creating complex layers of interaction. This research develops a theoretical framework based on social exchange theory, social information processing theory, and the stereotype content model to explore user responses to the accuracy and interpretability of algorithmic recommendations and to identify the mediating factors influencing their willingness to engage in value co-creation. The study’s findings reveal that: (1) In high-accuracy scenarios (vs. low-accuracy), users perceive algorithmic recommendations as more competent and warmer, which enhances their willingness to engage in value co-creation, with perceived competence and warmth serving as mediators. (2) In scenarios with strong interpretability (vs. low interpretability), users similarly perceive recommendations as more competent and warmer, increasing their willingness to participate in value co-creation, with perceived competence and warmth acting as mediators. This research provides a practical framework for enterprises offering algorithmic recommendation services, guiding them in fostering greater user participation in value co-creation.
Attachment styles influence mental health and sleep patterns in adulthood, but their relationship with unusual sleep experiences is underexplored. This study investigated how attachment dimensions (secure, anxious, avoidant) relate to the frequency of unusual sleep experiences—including general sleep experiences and lucid dreaming —in depressed patients versus healthy individuals. 232 participants (98 with depression, 134 healthy controls) completed the Persian versions of the Adult Attachment Inventory (AAI) and the Iowa Sleep Experiences Survey (ISES). Depressed patients scored significantly higher on attachment anxiety (p= 0.001) and avoidance (p= 0.043), but not on security (p= 0.629), compared to controls. They also reported higher frequencies of general unusual sleep experiences (p= 0.002) and total unusual sleep experiences (p= 0.005), but not lucid dreaming (p= 0.805). In both groups, attachment anxiety and avoidance significantly predicted higher frequencies of total unusual sleep experiences (anxiety: Β = 1.61,P< 0.001; avoidance: Β = 1.39,P< 0.001) and general sleep experiences (anxiety: Β = 1.27,P< 0.001; avoidance: Β = 1.01,P< 0.001). These findings suggest that attachment anxiety and avoidance are linked to increased unusual sleep experiences, possibly reflecting disturbances in sleep architecture that are more pronounced in depression. Considering attachment styles may be important when addressing unusual sleep experiences and developing interventions for sleep-related issues in both clinical and non-clinical populations.
Willingness to Communicate (WTC) is a critical factor in determining successful second language (L2) learning. Identifying the variables influencing WTC is essential for learners seeking to establish effective communication in an L2. However, several questions regarding WTC remain unanswered. This study aimed to explore how the link between informal digital learning of English (IDLE), basic psychological needs (BPNs), and positive affective variables—foreign language enjoyment (FLE) and grit—influences learners’ L2 WTC. The study examined WTC among 1,056 Chinese university students learning English as a foreign language (EFL) and analyzed five latent variables using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM). The analysis revealed that both IDLE and BPNs directly predicted WTC. Additionally, FLE and grit served as mediators between IDLE and WTC, as well as BPNs and WTC. This study further underscores the mediating role of positive variables in L2 learning. These findings hold significant implications for future EFL teaching strategies, suggesting that fostering enjoyment and grit through IDLE activities can enhance learners’ WTC.
BackgroundIntertemporal choices are the process by which people make choices about losses or gains at different points in time (near or far). To explore the relationship between font color and intertemporal choice and to examine the serial mediation of time perception and intradimensional difference comparison on the association between font color and intertemporal choice on the basis of attribute-based choice models.MethodsWe randomly assigned subjects to the intertemporal choices questionnaire in a specific font color (blue vs. red) condition. The Intertemporal Choice Task, the Subjective Duration Judgment Task and the Intradimensional Difference Comparison Task were administered to a sample comprising 210 college students (103 males accounting for 49.05%). Multivariate analysis and latent variable analysis were used to explore the separate mediating roles of time perception and intradimensional difference comparison in the association between font color and intertemporal choice, and their serial mediation was also investigated. The bootstrap method was employed to test the significance of these mediating effects.ResultsCompared with red font, blue font can encourage students to choose more-farsighted intertemporal choices (i.e., LL). Students who use the blue font are more likely to have shorter durations and can choose the more farsighted intertemporal choice (i.e., LL) than those who use the red font. Students using blue fonts are more likely to perceive the difference between the two options chosen across time (∆payoffA, B) to be greater than the difference between the two options in the payoff dimension (∆timeA, B), leading to farsighted choices compared with those using red fonts. Serial mediation was also found.ConclusionThe findings revealed why font color influences intertemporal choice. This study revealed the mediating role that time perception and intradimensional difference comparison play in the association between font color and intertemporal choice.
The evaluation of social communication and interaction (SC/I) behaviors is foundational to the autism identification process. However, this type of evaluation is made difficult by the fact that SC/I is a construct in which perceptions and expectations are largely influenced by norms and attitudes of different sociodemographic groups. While there are many factors that influence differences in SC/I behaviors across sociodemographic groups, one factor that may be especially important is the perceived value of these behaviors. The purpose of this study is to investigate which sociodemographic factors influence the perceived importance of SC/I behaviors among caregivers of children and adolescents. Caregivers (n= 398) living in the United States completed the Social Communication and Interaction Perceptions Scale (SCIPS). Linear mixed-effect models were used to investigate the relationship between the perceived importance of SC/I behaviors and seven sociodemographic factors as well as determine if this relationship was moderated by SC/I behavior type (i.e., foundational vs. advanced behaviors). Several different sociodemographic factors (i.e., caregiver race/ethnicity, caregiver gender, household income, child disability status, child age, child gender) were associated with caregiver ratings of the perceived importance of SC/I behaviors. This relation was, in some instances (i.e., caregiver race/ethnicity, caregiver gender, child disability status), moderated by whether the SC/I behaviors were foundational or advanced. Our findings highlight the importance of considering the values of caregivers regarding perceived SC/I importance during the autism identification process.
Educational researchers have a long-lasting interest in the strategies examinees employ when responding to items in an assessment. Mixture item response theory (IRT) modeling is a popular class of approaches to studying examinees’ item-response strategies. In the present study, we introduce a response time (RT)-based mixture IRT model for flexible modeling of examinee-and-item-specific item-response strategies. We posit that examinees may alternate between ability-based and non-ability-based strategies across different test items. Our proposed model identifies such within-examinee strategy switches without the need to predefine the non-ability-based strategies. Instead, our proposed approach allows for inferring the nature of these strategies from model parameter estimates. We illustrated the proposed approach using empirical data from PISA 2018 Science test and evaluated it through simulation studies. We concluded the article with discussions of limitations and future research directions.
Adolescence is a developmental period of relative volatility, where the individual experiences significant changes to their physical and social environment. The ability to adapt to the volatility of one’s surroundings is an important cognitive ability, particularly while foraging, a near-ubiquitous behaviour across the animal kingdom. As adolescents experience more volatility in their surroundings, we predicted that this age group would be more adept than adults at using exploration to adjust to volatility. We employed a foraging task with a well-validated computational model to characterise the mechanisms of exploration in volatile environments, preregistering the hypothesis that adolescents (aged 16–17;N= 91) would exhibit more optimal adaptation of their learning rate to changes in environmental volatility compared with adults (aged 24+;N= 90). However, surprisingly, both adolescents and adults exhibited suboptimal adjustment of their learning rate to environmental volatility. In contrast to the learning rate, it was instead participants’stochasticity(i.e., decision variability) that better resembled the adjustment to volatility made by the optimal RL agent. Although heightened stochasticity in the volatile environment led participants to more often trial different responses that facilitated discovery of changes to the environment, we also found that anxiety impaired this adaptive ability. The finding of heightened stochasticity in volatile environments contradicts expectations that the learning rate is responsible for successful adaptation and motivates future work on the deleterious role that anxiety plays when adolescents manage periods of transition.
Perceptual categorization is arguably a decision-making task. Lab-based, perceptual categorization research tends to ask participants to classify objects into one of a small set of fixed categories. Decision-making research, however, has revealed a number of choice phenomena that emerge as a function of the size and composition of the choice set. In the current work, we explore the possibility that two rational principles of choice may be violated in categorization: independence of irrelevant alternatives (IIA) and regularity. Critically, such violations deviate from predictions of the Luce Choice Rule, which is assumed by the Generalized Context Model (GCM). The empirical framework used to test for these violations is borrowed from the decision-making phenomenon of the attraction effect. We tested two variations of this paradigm, which involves multiple categories. In the first variation (Experiments 1a and 1b), the set of learned categories varied across participants. In the second variation (Experiments 2a and 2b), the test choice sets varied within participants for a common set of learned categories. Both IIA and regularity were violated when the set of learned categories varied across participants, but they were not violated when the choice sets were varied given a fixed set of learned categories. The GCM can account for the violations, but only by adopting response bias parameters that vary across conditions. These data point to emergent phenomena when classifying stimuli into multiple categories.
Dyssynergic defecation(DD) is the inability to coordinate abdominal and anorectal muscle contraction during defecation. Patients with constipation often report poor quality of life, sleep issues, and increased risk of mood disorders. Biofeedback is a recommended treatment for DD. we evaluated the effect of EMG-biofeedback on constipation symptoms as the primary outcome and also on insomnia, mood disorders (depression and anxiety), and quality of life as secondary outcomes in patients with dyssynergic defecation. Thirty-one patients with DD (74.2% women, mean age 46.23 ± 13.42 years), diagnosed using Rome IV criteria, Bristol Stool Form Scale, and anorectal manometry, were included. Patients underwent six to ten sessions of EMG-based biofeedback. We evaluated symptoms using the Wexner constipation questionnaire, Visual Analog Scale (VAS), SF-36 for quality of life, Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), and Hamilton questionnaires for anxiety and depression (HAM-A and HAM-D) before and after treatment. As consistent with study hypotheses, the Wexner scores significantly improved after biofeedback (p < 0.0001,t = 6.98). ISI scores improved (p = 0.01, t = 2.74), as did VAS scores (p < 0.0001, t = 5.14). HAM-A and HAM-D scores showed significant reductions (HAM-A: p = 0.0001, t = 5.01; HAM-D: p = 0.003, t = 2.17). However, SF-36 did not show significant improvement in quality of life (p > 0.05, t = -0.93). Biofeedback effectively improved constipation symptoms, insomnia, and mood disorders but did not impact quality of life.
Post-traumatic stress and major depressive disorders are associated with “overgeneral” autobiographical memory, or impaired recall of specific life events. Interpersonal trauma exposure, a risk factor for both conditions, may influence how symptomatic trauma-exposed (TE) individuals segment everyday events. The ability to parse experience into units (event segmentation) supports memory. Neural state transitions occur within a cortical hierarchy and play a key role in event segmentation, with regions like the occipital cortex, angular gyrus, and striatum involved in parsing event structure. We examined whether interpersonal trauma exposure was associated with alterations in the cortical hierarchy and striatal activity at neural state transitions in symptomatic TE versus healthy control (HC) individuals. Fifty older adolescents and young adults (29 TE, 21 HC) viewed the film “Partly Cloudy” during functional magnetic resonance imaging. A greedy-state boundary search algorithm assessed the optimal number of events, quality, and segmentation agreement of neural state transitions in the occipital cortex and angular gyrus. Striatal (nucleus accumbens, caudate, and putamen) activity was assessed at occipital and angular gyrus-evoked state transitions. Compared to HCs, TE participants displayed less occipital and greater angular gyrus-evoked optimal number of neural state transitions. TE participants also displayed lower quality of neural state segmentation solutions in occipital and angular cortices compared to HCs. Additionally, TE participants had less putamen activity at angular gyrus-evoked state transitions than HCs. This investigation provides neurobiological insights into aberrant event segmentation in symptomatic TE individuals, shedding light on mechanisms influencing overgeneral memory in trauma-related disorders.
The COVID-19 pandemic’s impact on mental health is challenging to quantify because pre-existing risk, disease burden and public policy varied across individuals, time and regions. Longitudinal, within-person analyses can determine whether pandemic-related changes in social isolation impacted mental health. We analyzed time-varying associations between psychiatric vulnerability, loneliness, psychological distress and social distancing in a US-based study during the first year of the pandemic. We surveyed 3,655 participants about psychological health and COVID-19-related circumstances every 2 weeks for 6 months. We combined self-reports with regional social distancing estimates and a classifier that predicted probability of psychiatric diagnosis at enrollment. Loneliness and psychiatric vulnerability both impacted psychological distress. Loneliness and distress were also linked to social isolation and stress associated with distancing, and psychiatric vulnerability shaped how regional distancing affected loneliness across time. Public health policies should address loneliness when encouraging social distancing, particularly in those at risk for psychiatric conditions.
Several studies have established the association between social comparison and aggression. However, the underlying mechanisms of the linkage between social comparison and adolescents’ aggression have received limited attention. This study examined social comparison conditions (upward social comparison, downward social comparison, and non-comparison condition) differences in aggression and self-control, and whether differences in aggression were mediated by self-control. A sample of 173 mainland Chinese adolescents (Mage= 13.23 years,SD= 0.83, ranging from 12 to 15) was randomly allocated to the upward social comparison group (n= 59), downward social comparison group (n= 54), or the non-comparison group (n= 60). The results showed that adolescents in the upward social comparison group exhibited the most aggression and the lowest level of self-control, while no significant differences were observed between the downward social comparison and non-comparison groups concerning aggression and self-control. Furthermore, the multicategorical mediation analysis demonstrated that self-control partially mediated the association between the upward social comparison group and aggression relative to the non-comparison group. That is, adolescents in the upward social comparison group displayed lower levels of self-control, which in turn correlated with increased aggression when compared to the non-comparison group. Our findings identified the internal mechanisms of adolescent aggression and provided preliminary evidence for future interventions to decrease adolescents’ aggression within the social context.
BackgroundChild maltreatment in daycare is a public health issue. As childcare is stressful, high care provider negativity independently predicts more internalizing behaviour problems, affecting children’s psycho-neurological development. This study aimed to determine psychosocial factors associated with the mental health of preschool care providers in Kuala Lumpur.MethodsA random cluster sampling cross-sectional survey was conducted in 2019. The study involved registered care providers for preschoolers under four years old without acute psychiatric illness. The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (Malay-CES-D) and Karasek’s Job Content Questionnaires (Malay-JCQ) were used to assess depression symptoms and psychosocial job-related risks. Logistic regression (p< 0.05) guided by the Hosmer-Lemeshow strategy was used for analysis, with the final model evaluated for assumptions and goodness-of-fit.ResultsA total of 247 providers were recruited from 36 preschools. All respondents were females, with a mean age of 32.1 years old, Malays (70.4%), married (55.0%), attained a diploma and above (50.6%) and had low income (80.1%). The prevalence of depressive symptoms and job strain was 28.7%. Final logistic regression revealed individual factors (married, stressful life events: assault and marital issues), job strain (AOR = 2.33, CI = 1.22, 4.44), and job insecurity (AOR = 1.29, CI = 1.07, 1.56) determine depressive symptoms. Good supervisor support was inversely associated with depression.ConclusionsJob strain and insecurity contribute significantly to depressive symptoms among preschool care providers in Kuala Lumpur. The Social and Welfare Department can promote supportive supervision through skill training for supervisors, fostering a positive mental health environment for improving workers’ mental health.
Research on human language started to change when Murray Sidman and colleagues demonstrated that a participant was able to derive unreinforced stimulus relations after conditional discrimination training. This work provided the basis for a novel approach to research on symbolic behavior and fostered the development of three main theoretical accounts: stimulus equivalence (SE), relational frame theory (RFT), and naming theory (NT). These accounts unfolded in the last decades of the twentieth century, promoting intense debate and discussion within behavior analysis. Although experimental research emerging from these three accounts is still highly active today, the theoretical discussions have, to a large extent, faded. Considering the importance of rekindling a dialogue, this article aims to describe the differences among the three accounts, but focus on their common points. We conclude by arguing that developing a more complete behavior-analytic account of human language would be served best by considering both research and theoretical analyses of SE, RFT and NT. Finally, we provide examples of two successful research groups that adopted this approach and in doing so have advanced our understanding of language within behavior analysis.
An organization that functions as an intermediary has been described as an entity that engages in the support of many programs while also building capacity for the implementation and delivery of programs locally so that they may be successfully sustained over time. The role of the intermediary in the distribution and support of usable innovations and evidence-based programs must be clearly defined if the functions of the intermediary, as well as the evidence-based programs, are to be sustained and scaled. Effective intermediary organizations require consistent attention to program implementation strategies and to integrating principles related to race equity within the structures and functions of intermediary organizations so that all children and families can benefit from usable innovations. This paper provides case examples of two intermediary organizations in the United States. We describe how they use the Active Implementation Frameworks to support the implementation of evidence-based practices and their organizational efforts to operationalize equity throughout their intermediary structure and functions.
Gender inequalities are pervasive across various life domains, yet research has often overlooked how people perceive that women are treated differently than men. To fill this gap, we developed and validated the 16-item multidimensional Social Treatment and Experiences of Women (STEW) scale across different samples of women and different cultural contexts, namely Italy and the UKN= 1,195). Using exploratory (Study 1,N =703) and confirmatory (Study 2,N =550; Study 3a,N =132; Study 4,N= 201; Study 5,N= 233) factor analysis, we identified four dimensions: workplace inequalities, domestic imbalance, harassment towards women, and social expectations. Studies 3a and 3b (N =96) demonstrated convergent, discriminant, and predictive validity of the STEW, linking the STEW’s subscales to group-based emotions, reported experiences of sexism, attitudes towards affirmative action, and attitudes towards women’s sexual freedom. Replicating the factor structure in the UK, Study 4 found the STEW explained unique variance in group-based emotions and intergroup attitudes beyond personal experiences of sexism. Last, Study 5 showed that the STEW explains unique variance in collective action intentions and feminist identification beyond people’s attitudes towards gender equality. Highlighting the importance of conceiving gender inequalities as a multifaceted issue, the STEW provides a robust tool for assessing perceptions of differential treatment of women across domains and can inform more comprehensive interventions promoting gender equality.
This research uses a self-report questionnaire to examine how humour styles based on Martin’s taxonomy (affiliative, self-enhancing, aggressive, and self-defeating) may moderate the relationship between Dark Triad personality traits (Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy) and bullying behaviors among 662 university students. Significant positive correlations between Dark Triad traits and bullying emerged, as well as gender, with males scoring higher in all variables. Moderation analyses showed that affiliative humour reduced the impact of narcissism on bullying, while aggressive enhanced it. Additionally, self-enhancing and aggressive humour increased the impact of psychopathy on bullying behaviors. These results suggest that humour styles play a crucial role in the dynamics of bullying in relation to Dark Triad personality traits, offering new insights for intervention strategies.
ObjectivesIntuitive eating is a healthy and positive eating behavior. Previous research has indicated that intuitive eating is associated with body appreciation, which may be enhanced through self-compassion. This study developed and evaluated the effectiveness of a self-compassion-based intuitive eating intervention, titled Be Friends with Yourself and Food (BFYF), on intuitive eating, self-compassion, and body appreciation. Additionally, it explored the pathways from self-compassion to body appreciation and intuitive eating in a Chinese population.MethodsOne-hundred Chinese adults were randomly assigned to BFYF group and waitlist group. Three-week intervention to improve self-compassion, body appreciation and intuitive eating included psychoeducation about intuitive eating and meditation practice based on self-compassion. Data were collected before intervention of BFYF group (T0), after intervention for each group (T1 and T2) and 1 month after intervention for each group (T3 and T4).ResultsBFYF significantly increased self-compassion, intuitive eating, and body appreciation, and all the changes were maintained at the 1-month follow-up. BFYF improved intuitive eating directly and via self-compassion.ConclusionThe current study supported BFYF as a promising intervention to enhance intuitive eating, self-compassion, and body appreciation. It also illustrated how self-compassion benefits positive eating behaviors.
Bullying is a serious public health issue for adolescents in the United States. Previous studies have demonstrated associations between self-esteem, anxiety/depressive symptoms, and bullying victimization (BV); however, these relationships have not been extensively studied considering the overlap of social identities of Latinx adolescents living with obesity and overweight (LAWO), who are more likely to be victims of bullying. The current study aims to address these gaps by examining the relationship between BV and anxiety/depressive symptoms and the role of self-esteem while considering sex differences among LAWO (N= 139; female:n= 77, 55.4%; mean age = 12.9 years). Results for overall group showed that BV significantly predicted anxiety/depressive symptoms and self-esteem significantly mediated this relationship. Multigroup mediation analysis resulted in significant mediation by self-esteem for females. Results suggest that interventions that target self-esteem and consider culture would be beneficial for female LAWO.
Family relationships and family life are important protective factors for psychological health. Establishing healthy communication between members of a family is important for the happiness of individuals. There are several cross-sectional findings regarding family communication in the literature. A longitudinal design was used to examine the mediating effect of cognitive flexibility in the relationship between family communication and happiness, taking into consideration the limitations of the cross-sectional design. In this study, data from the Turkish adult sample (N= 277) was collected in two waves at four-month intervals. The ages of the sample group [195 (70.4%) female and 82 (29.6%) male] are between 20 and 55. The average age was calculated as 29.66 (SD = 8.27). We used the cross-lagged panel model for the half-longitudinal mediation model for testing mediation with two time points at four-month intervals. The findings revealed that the variables of the study had significant longitudinal associations, and cognitive flexibility played a longitudinal mediating role in the relationship between family communication and happiness. The current results prove the importance of healthy relationships among family members and highlight the significant influence of family communication and cognitive flexibility on happiness.
Among a large sample of youth (9–10 years old at baseline) from the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study®(n= 11,661) we modeled trajectories of psychopathology over three years and associated risk and protective factors. Growth mixture modeling characterized latent classes with distinct psychopathology trajectories. Results indicated four different internalizing trajectories: a high-decreasing class, a moderate-decreasing class, a moderate-increasing class, and a low-stable class. There were also four externalizing trajectories: a moderate-decreasing class, a high-decreasing class, a moderate-increasing class, and a low-decreasing class. We used parallel process growth analysis to examine the co-development of internalizing and externalizing symptoms and characterized five trajectory classes with distinct patterns of co-development. These classes were differentially associated with negative life events, neighborhood safety, and parental acceptance. Together, the findings characterize general developmental patterns of psychopathology, quantify the proportion of youth that follow each pattern, and identify key predictors that discriminate these patterns.
This study aims to provide a novel perspective on why and how abusive supervision originates. Drawing upon reactance theory which argues that restrictions on individuals’ desired behavior cause a threat to their sense of control and, in turn, invokes the threatened individuals’ reactance, we propose that supervisors’ experience of being ostracized by peer coworkers thwarts the ostracized supervisors’ sense of control, eventually triggering their abusiveness toward subordinates. We further suggest that supervisors’ perception of their power is a critical boundary condition of this mediation mechanism, such that for those supervisors with weaker, rather than stronger, perceived power, the ostracized experience damages their sense of control in a greater extent and thus causes more severe abusive supervision. In Study 1, using an experimental design with manipulations of workplace ostracism by peer coworkers and perceived power, we find support for our moderated mediation model. Study 2 replicates the findings with field survey data from South Korea. We discuss the theoretical and practical implications of our research.
Family relationships and family life are important protective factors for psychological health. Establishing healthy communication between members of a family is important for the happiness of individuals. There are several cross-sectional findings regarding family communication in the literature. A longitudinal design was used to examine the mediating effect of cognitive flexibility in the relationship between family communication and happiness, taking into consideration the limitations of the cross-sectional design. In this study, data from the Turkish adult sample (N= 277) was collected in two waves at four-month intervals. The ages of the sample group [195 (70.4%) female and 82 (29.6%) male] are between 20 and 55. The average age was calculated as 29.66 (SD = 8.27). We used the cross-lagged panel model for the half-longitudinal mediation model for testing mediation with two time points at four-month intervals. The findings revealed that the variables of the study had significant longitudinal associations, and cognitive flexibility played a longitudinal mediating role in the relationship between family communication and happiness. The current results prove the importance of healthy relationships among family members and highlight the significant influence of family communication and cognitive flexibility on happiness.
ObjectivesIntuitive eating is a healthy and positive eating behavior. Previous research has indicated that intuitive eating is associated with body appreciation, which may be enhanced through self-compassion. This study developed and evaluated the effectiveness of a self-compassion-based intuitive eating intervention, titled Be Friends with Yourself and Food (BFYF), on intuitive eating, self-compassion, and body appreciation. Additionally, it explored the pathways from self-compassion to body appreciation and intuitive eating in a Chinese population.MethodsOne-hundred Chinese adults were randomly assigned to BFYF group and waitlist group. Three-week intervention to improve self-compassion, body appreciation and intuitive eating included psychoeducation about intuitive eating and meditation practice based on self-compassion. Data were collected before intervention of BFYF group (T0), after intervention for each group (T1 and T2) and 1 month after intervention for each group (T3 and T4).ResultsBFYF significantly increased self-compassion, intuitive eating, and body appreciation, and all the changes were maintained at the 1-month follow-up. BFYF improved intuitive eating directly and via self-compassion.ConclusionThe current study supported BFYF as a promising intervention to enhance intuitive eating, self-compassion, and body appreciation. It also illustrated how self-compassion benefits positive eating behaviors.
Empathy is multifaceted, involving sharing and understanding the emotional and mental states of others. This study investigated the factor structure of the English-language version of the Empathy Quotient for Children (EQ-C; Auyeung et al.,2009), an empathy measure previously well-validated only as a global scale. We aimed to compare children with and without educational differences (i.e.,Special Educational Needs & Disabilities, SEND), and explored associations between empathy and sensory sensitivities across the whole sample. Based on responses from 680 parents, we analysed data from English-speaking children aged 6–12 years, via a series of factor analyses using polychoric correlation matrices and bass-ackward analysis. Empathy domain profiling for children with SEND status (versus children without SEND status) was investigated as group differences (t tests). Sensory sensitivities were examined via associations (correlation) and net effects (regression). We identified an optimal four-factor solution (emotional empathy,social-cognitive empathy,negative interactions,antisocial behaviours), and robust higher order one-, two- and three-factor models. Children with SEND status displayed empathy differences across all four empathy domains (allp< .001). Children with greater sensory sensitivities displayed significant differences forsocial-cognitive empathyandnegative interactionsonly (bothp< .001). We demonstrated the potential utility of the English-language EQ-C as a domain-level measure of empathy. Our paper discusses how the domains align with traditional emotional and cognitive dimensions in adults and cross-culturally. Our empathy profiles can be used alongside global empathy measures for different groups of children, with and without educational differences and sensory sensitivities.
This study examined the effects of virtual exercise participation on leisure motivation, psychological well-being, and performance outcomes. A sample of 110 university students (Xage = 21.49 ± 1.82) participated in a virtual cycling simulation over an approximate eight-week period, performing individually, in a group setting, and then as teammates with an unfamiliar partner. For each session, performance indicators—completion time, average heart rate, cadence, power output, and calorie expenditure—were recorded. The Leisure Motivation Scale and Psychological Well-Being Scale were administered before the initial ride and after the final ride. Analysis using Repeated Measure ANOVA (Analysis of variance) revealed significant differences in performance metrics across the three exercise conditions. Pairwise Comparisons with Bonferroni correction indicated specific differences between group configurations, and a Paired Sample t-test showed notable changes in leisure motivation and psychological well-being from pre- to post-test. These findings highlight the role of social context in virtual exercise performance and its impact on participants’ motivational and psychological outcomes.
The diagnosis of bipolar disorder (BD) in young children has been a topic of debate, in part owing to varied interpretation of manic-like symptoms. We examined how expert academic clinicians participating in the pediatric bipolar biobank varied in their interpretation and application of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) criteria and diagnoses. Study co-investigators reviewed 12 standardized narratives and for each marked a visual analog scale with their confidence in the presence of manic episodes and criteria. We analyzed raters’ confidence and inter-rater agreement using interclass correlation (ICC). Symptoms with good ICC ranging from 0.60 to 0.74 included inflated self-esteem/grandiosity and decreased need for sleep. Diagnoses and episodes with poor ICCs (< 0.4) included Hypomania and Bipolar Not Elsewhere Classified/Not Otherwise Specified. Despite efforts made to refine BD criteria with DSM-5, there was substantive variation in diagnostic interpretation among investigators working with children presenting with manic-like symptoms.
There have been disparities reported in prevalence of autism by gender, race, and socioeconomic status with older ages of diagnosis in non-White and in female children. Possible disparities in the ages of autism diagnosis are not well-established within the Military Health System (MHS) pediatric population, where we hypothesized less disparities given universal Tricare coverage for active-duty military families and theoretically equal access to the military treatment facility (MTF). We conducted retrospective cross-sectional analysis using deidentified database repository records from the MHS. We collected and analyzed demographic data on children covered by Tricare and newly diagnosed with autism within an MTF (N = 31,355) or outside of the MTF (5,579 respectively). Within the MTF, we identified younger ages of autism diagnosis in non-White children less than 18 years old (p < 2.2e−16), without significant differences in ages of diagnosis by race in children less than 6 years of age. There were no statistically significant differences in ages of diagnosis between males and females. Outside the MTF, we identified younger ages of autism diagnosis in males versus females with statistically significant difference in average ages of autism diagnosis between males and females less than the age of 18 years (p = 4.4e-08). This difference was not seen in children less than 6 years of age. Racial data was not available for diagnosis outside the MTF. The age of autism diagnosis in the military pediatric population within the MTF did not reflect historical disparities seen in non-White and in female children.
BackgroundA happy adolescent may live a healthy and successful life. This study focused on parental expectations in the Chinese cultural context and investigated whether and under what conditions adolescents’ perceived parental expectations are associated with their happiness, the affective component of subjective well-being.Sample and methodsThis cross-sectional study included a sample of 1510 Chinese adolescents; the average age of the adolescents was 12.39 years, and 55.40% were boys. A questionnaire including the perceived parental expectations scale, self-efficacy scale, connectedness subscale and one item that measured happiness was administered to the adolescents.ResultsThe results reveal that self-efficacy moderates the relationship between perceived parental expectations and happiness. For adolescents who exhibit higher levels of self-efficacy, perceived parental expectations are negatively correlated with happiness; in contrast, for adolescents who exhibit lower levels of self-efficacy, perceived parental expectations are not related to happiness. Moreover, the results reveal that connectedness moderates the relationship between perceived parental expectations and happiness. Among adolescents who exhibit higher levels of connectedness, a nonsignificant relationship is observed between perceived parental expectations and happiness; in contrast, among adolescents who exhibit lower levels of connectedness, perceived parental expectations are negatively related to happiness.ConclusionsThis study reveals that, under conditions featuring higher levels of self-efficacy or lower levels of connectedness, perceived parental expectations are not conducive to their happiness. These findings have important implications with regard to parenting practices.
Proponents of schema focused therapy (SFT) have accrued a growing and persuasive evidence base that indicates it as one of a small number of treatments for personality difficulties and associated issues. However, unlike other treatments, SFT’s focus has predominantly remained on adults with enduring and chronic psychopathology. This comprehensive narrative review firstly aims to articulate the theoretical application of SFT as a means of addressing suitable psychological vulnerabilities and associated issues with adolescents. In addition, the review aims to highlight the potential use of SFT techniques when integrated into parental interventions as a means of strengthening the parent-child relationship. Finally, the review aims to synthesize the accumulation of SFT research applicable to work with adolescents and parents with a view towards delineating future treatment development and clinical application among a wide range of mental health and social care professions.
This volume makes a notable contribution with a deep and extensive analysis to achieve the movement from Yoga Philosophy to Yoga Psychology for the promotion of integration with Modern Psychology, a task hitherto unrealized despite the burgeoning attention to Yoga. This commentary is constrained by my own limited knowledge of traditional Indian philosophy in making a thorough examination of Paranjpe’s contribution beyond attention to selected concepts and sporadic illustrations from the original volume. Yoga practice is, Paranjpe informs us, just the tip of an immense consolidation of knowledge, deep intellectual thought and theoretical consideration about the embodied sense of self, health and well-being. Spirituality is foundational to the theory and practice of yoga. This volume has immense potential relevance for contemporary psychological theory and practice in an attempt to highlight embodied and spiritual considerations of human existence. With some notable exceptions, modern psychology has adopted the positivistic paradigm that systematically rejects traditional knowledge systems. Through intercultural translation (a concept I borrow from Santos,2018), Paranjpe successfully transcends this divide and provides detailed possibilities about why and how this knowledge can relate to, inform and expand the science of human being and becoming that is inclusive, built for mutuality rather than domination; travelling on the path of dialogue between diverse knowledge systems.
Telehealth has evolved over the course of time with advances in technology and utilization by healthcare providers. Specific to the field of psychology, telepsychology is advantageous for clinical, supervisory, and training purposes. The nine profession-wide competencies (PWCs) required by the American Psychological Association (APA) Commission on Accreditation (CoA) for training in health service psychology (HSP) provide a foundation for efficacious psychological practice. Given the integration of telepsychology into clinical practice, it is essential to establish a structured framework for developmentally appropriate telepsychology training to assure competency for doctoral, intern, and post-doctoral residency trainees. The present study surveyed 20 training directors to obtain their preference between three proposed models to assess trainee’s competence in telepsychology at the doctoral, internship, and postdoctoral training level. Results supported a preference for integrating telepsychology within the current PWCs. Important next steps may include formation of an expert panel to assist in integrating telepsychology expectations for advance-level psychology trainees within the required PWCs for training programs.
Action-state orientation (ASO) refers to regulatory modes influencing intention initiation and goal pursuit. While ASO pertains to both dispositional and time- and context-sensitive states, extant research predominantly focuses on individual differences in ASO, leaving within-person dynamics and situational antecedents underexplored. Addressing this gap, the study explored task-related fluctuations in ASO (ASO-T) and its relationship with task-related affect and anticipated task difficulty. Both the pilot study (Nperson= 62,Nmeasurement= 248) and the main study (Nperson= 165,Nmeasurement= 660) employed a biweekly data collection. However, in the main study, the assessment of anticipated task difficulty and other measures was temporally separated. Results of the pilot study indicated that the measurement of ASO-T is a reliable and valid instrument and ASO-T displays substantial within-person variation. The main study findings showed that task-related negative affect, but not positive affect, mediates the relationship between anticipated task difficulty and two forms of ASO-T (hesitation and preoccupation). Additionally, task-related positive affect was more strongly related to ASO-T than task-related negative affect. These findings confirm ASO-T as a context-sensitive and malleable construct and extend the ASO research by shedding light on task-related, situational antecedents of ASO-T.
ObjectivesHigh prevalence of depression in young adults indicates the importance of finding effective treatments for this population. Mindful yoga has shown promise as a mood disorder intervention, but there remain gaps in the knowledge base, such as the mechanisms of action. These studies examined whether a short mindful yoga intervention led to greater reductions in depressed affect, compared to an active control group, and whether this effect was mediated by rumination and attentional bias.MethodIn Study 1, undergraduates (n= 71) received nine sessions of mindful yoga or relaxation. In Study 2, undergraduates (n= 74) selected for symptoms of depression followed the same procedure as Study 1.ResultsIn Study 1, results indicated no group differences on depressed affect at post-intervention or at 2-month follow-up. Post-hoc moderation analyses showed that for participants with greater depressed affect at baseline, mindful yoga was more effective in reducing depressed affect at post-intervention and 2-month follow-up. In Study 2, at 2-month follow-up, but not at post-intervention, mindful yoga led to greater reductions in depressed affect. Neither study showed mediation effects for rumination or attentional bias.ConclusionsThe results suggest mindful yoga may have promise for young adults with symptoms of depression.PreregistrationThis study was not preregistered.
Efficient and flexible responses are essential for successfully interacting with the environment. These interactions require an instantaneous integration of visual stimuli and responses, known as ‘stimulus–response binding’ (SR binding). SR binding is considered part of a holistic temporary representation, the event file, that integrates the stimulus, the response, and the action effect produced by this response. It is commonly assumed that an event file (or at least the SR binding) would end with the execution of the response or its action effect. This, however, has never been directly tested. Here, we tested whether the SR binding can be formed between another temporally close stimulus that people didn’t respond to by implementing a sequence of two stimuli where participants needed to respond only to the first or second stimulus. Our results indicate that a binding between the response and this temporally close stimulus can occur, but only when it’s placed after, and not before, the response execution. This finding suggests that the event file might operate a temporal binding window that is not decisively terminated by the response execution. Further, this insight into the temporal dynamics of the event file highlights the temporal flexibility of the SR binding and, thus, the need for careful consideration of its sub-structures and durability.
Time perspective is a concept that elucidates the manner in which individuals assess the present, past, and future. In the relevant literature, trauma and trauma-related issues have been matched to time perspective. In particular, there are conflicting findings regarding post-traumatic growth. The objective of the research is to investigate the mediator role of time perspective in the relationship between childhood traumas and post-traumatic growth. Based on this, it is predicted that early traumas and post-traumatic growth will be related to time perspective and proposed relationship will have important consequences for literature and clinicians. For this purpose, 676 participants were included, and the survey set was presented to the participants. Pearson correlation and mediation were performed. Results showed that there is a only significant relationship between emotional neglect and post-traumatic growth, while there is no relationship between the other sub-dimensions of childhood traumas and post-traumatic growth. As a result of the mediation analysis conducted, it was seen that time perspectives played a mediator role between emotional neglect and post-traumatic growth. The results obtained were discussed within the framework of the related literature and suggestions for future studies were presented.
When COVID-19 vaccines were publicly distributed, there was inaccurate information about their efficacy and safety. Why is it that some people came to believe claims that were not corroborated by evidence and held such misbeliefs? Based on the belief gap hypothesis, we expect partisan-based gaps in misbeliefs about COVID-19 vaccines to grow over time as a function of partisan news exposure. Data from a three-wave survey fielded shortly after the COVID-19 vaccine public rollout showed no change in misbeliefs by political identity. However, data showed three-way interaction effects, such that levels of misbeliefs decreased during the study period for respondents with right-leaning political identities as they were exposed to vaccine-related news in both conservative and liberal news outlets. We discuss theoretical and practical implications of findings.
Athletes at all levels experience setbacks to sport performance that hinder goals and impact motivation and wellbeing. In two randomized controlled trials, we tested the viability of athletes to learn from a cognitive-based Setback Solutions Intervention intended to enhance perceived control and behavioural strategy intentions, and lower indecision about setback management. Study 1 focused on testing the intervention feasibility, fidelity, and effectiveness of setback management for 81 postsecondary student-athletes in the USA and Canada (Mage= 22.69). ANCOVAs tested differences between conditions (treatment, control) for Time 2 (post-treatment) setback-related indecision, perceived control, and behavioural strategy intentions, controlling for Time 1 (baseline) levels of each outcome, and setback experience. Athletes in the treatment (vs. control) condition reported lower Time 2 indecision and greater perceived control over setback management. Study 2 tested pre-registered hypotheses for these effects in 201 postsecondary student-athletes from the USA and Canada (Mage= 23.54 years). Study 2 incorporated a six-week follow-up post-intervention (Time 3) and additional psychosocial wellbeing outcomes (e.g., rumination, likelihood to seek social support). The findings were consistent with Study 1 evidencing the effectiveness of the intervention to decrease indecision and increase perceived control over setback management. The implications of these findings are discussed in terms of the development and potential of the intervention for widespread delivery to student-athletes encountering adversity in sport.
To measure individuals’ generalized approach to group inequality, social dominance orientation (SDO) scale (i.e., SDO7; with two correlated dimensions of dominance and anti-egalitarianism) has been developed. However, its measurement invariance has not been tested yet, nor has it been extensively used in developing countries. Therefore, in the present study, we studied the factor structure of the eight-item SDO7scale-short form in India and tested its measurement invariance across groups on a sample of 734 college students (age,M= 20.3 years,SD= 3.48). The results show that, after controlling for the acquiescence response style and wording (method) biases, the theoretically consistent two-factor model was a better fit than the one-factor model. This best-fit model was strongly invariant across caste and gender and partially strongly invariant across religion. Moreover, consistent with social realities, Hindu, men, and higher caste (among Muslim) had higher SDO. Thus, the present study supports the cross cultural validity of SDO and partially establishes a reliable and valid Hindi version of SDO7scale-short form.
Diminished responding to one’s own name is one of the strongest and earliest predictors of autism. However, research on the neural correlates of this response in autism is scarce. Here we investigate neural responses to hearing the own name in school-aged children with and without autism. Thirty-four children with autism and 33 without autism (ages 7–13) were presented with three categories of names (own name, close other’s name and unknown other name) as task-irrelevant deviant stimuli in an auditory oddball paradigm, while EEG was recorded. In line with previous findings, parietal P3 amplitudes for the own name were enhanced compared with a close other’s name. Older children showed a stronger self-specific effect than younger children. However, this self-preferential effect was not different between groups, despite the fact that parents of children with autism reported significantly less own-name responsiveness in daily life. Neither the N1 component or SON negativity showed self-specific effects. In school-aged children, only the parietal P3 component, and not the N1 or SON negativity, appears to be enhanced for the own name as compared to a close other’s name. Age seems to have an effect on the own name modulation of the P3 amplitude, which may explain the relatively small overall effect size. Against expectations, groups did not differ on this self-specific effect. Further research into neural and behavioral responses to hearing one’s own name in autism, across different age groups, is warranted.
BackgroundCurrent research on the transmission of trauma and eating disorders across generations is limited. However, quantitative studies suggest that the influence of parents’ and grandparents’ eating disorders and their prior exposure to trauma are associated with the development of eating disorders in future generations. Qualitative research exploring personal accounts of the impact of transgenerational trauma on the development of eating disorders has been largely unexplored. The aim of the current qualitative study was to explore the meaning that participants ascribed to their eating disorders in the context of transgenerational trauma across three generations.MethodsSix adult female participants who had received a diagnosis of anorexia nervosa and/or bulimia nervosa completed multiple unstructured interviews, informed by a psychoanalytical methodology.ResultsFour themes were developed from the material that emerged from the interviews: (1)The toll of undigested emotions(2),A need for safety(3), “It’s not just me” – making connections with the past, and (4)“Last link” in the chain?ConclusionsThe themes were discussed in respect of previous literature, with a particular emphasis on Gerson’s concept of thedead third, which emphasises an unconscious compulsion to repeat unprocessed transgenerational traumas. Clinical implications of the research underscores the importance of a holistic approach to the treatment of eating disorders, recognising both individual and familial traumas within the family system. Moreover, the research demonstrates the significant impact that mental health clinicians can have in eating disorder treatment by fostering a supportive, safe and trusting therapeutic relationship.
ObjectivesIndividuals with autism often experience difficulties with executive functions (EF). Some of these EF are, in turn, associated with certain behavioural autism characteristics. This study explored the intra- and inter-individual variability between autistic children in each of the EF components. Furthermore, this study aimed to delineate subgroups of autistic children and adolescents with different EF profiles and examined whether these subgroups are distinguished by differences in autism characteristics.MethodsA sample comprised 58 autistic individuals and 47 non-autistic controls, aged between 8 and 18 years. Eight lab-based EF tasks were administered to measure EF domains: working memory, inhibition, cognitive flexibility, generativity, and planning. Additionally, a parent-reported daily-life EF measure was used to assess how these abilities manifest in real-life contexts.ResultsA multiple case series analysis revealed that most autistic individuals performed similarly to the non-autism group on all lab-based EF tasks, and no autistic participant experienced difficulty with all EF measures. However, most individuals seemed to face a particular challenge in daily-life EF, as reported by parents. Furthermore, a cluster analysis was performed to delineate more homogenous subgroups with similar EF profiles within the autistic group. Three subgroups were identified and characterised by (1) challenges with internally controlled cognitive flexibility and planning, (2) challenges with internally and externally controlled cognitive flexibility and (3) no EF-related difficulties. These clusters did not differ in terms of social communication and interaction; however, they significantly differed regarding restricted, repetitive patterns of behaviour and interests.ConclusionsDistinct subgroups within the autistic group with unique EF profiles (weaknesses and strengths) were identified providing insight into the specific patterns of difficulty crucial for tailor-made interventions.
Time perspective is a concept that elucidates the manner in which individuals assess the present, past, and future. In the relevant literature, trauma and trauma-related issues have been matched to time perspective. In particular, there are conflicting findings regarding post-traumatic growth. The objective of the research is to investigate the mediator role of time perspective in the relationship between childhood traumas and post-traumatic growth. Based on this, it is predicted that early traumas and post-traumatic growth will be related to time perspective and proposed relationship will have important consequences for literature and clinicians. For this purpose, 676 participants were included, and the survey set was presented to the participants. Pearson correlation and mediation were performed. Results showed that there is a only significant relationship between emotional neglect and post-traumatic growth, while there is no relationship between the other sub-dimensions of childhood traumas and post-traumatic growth. As a result of the mediation analysis conducted, it was seen that time perspectives played a mediator role between emotional neglect and post-traumatic growth. The results obtained were discussed within the framework of the related literature and suggestions for future studies were presented.
This volume makes a notable contribution with a deep and extensive analysis to achieve the movement from Yoga Philosophy to Yoga Psychology for the promotion of integration with Modern Psychology, a task hitherto unrealized despite the burgeoning attention to Yoga. This commentary is constrained by my own limited knowledge of traditional Indian philosophy in making a thorough examination of Paranjpe’s contribution beyond attention to selected concepts and sporadic illustrations from the original volume. Yoga practice is, Paranjpe informs us, just the tip of an immense consolidation of knowledge, deep intellectual thought and theoretical consideration about the embodied sense of self, health and well-being. Spirituality is foundational to the theory and practice of yoga. This volume has immense potential relevance for contemporary psychological theory and practice in an attempt to highlight embodied and spiritual considerations of human existence. With some notable exceptions, modern psychology has adopted the positivistic paradigm that systematically rejects traditional knowledge systems. Through intercultural translation (a concept I borrow from Santos,2018), Paranjpe successfully transcends this divide and provides detailed possibilities about why and how this knowledge can relate to, inform and expand the science of human being and becoming that is inclusive, built for mutuality rather than domination; travelling on the path of dialogue between diverse knowledge systems.
Telehealth has evolved over the course of time with advances in technology and utilization by healthcare providers. Specific to the field of psychology, telepsychology is advantageous for clinical, supervisory, and training purposes. The nine profession-wide competencies (PWCs) required by the American Psychological Association (APA) Commission on Accreditation (CoA) for training in health service psychology (HSP) provide a foundation for efficacious psychological practice. Given the integration of telepsychology into clinical practice, it is essential to establish a structured framework for developmentally appropriate telepsychology training to assure competency for doctoral, intern, and post-doctoral residency trainees. The present study surveyed 20 training directors to obtain their preference between three proposed models to assess trainee’s competence in telepsychology at the doctoral, internship, and postdoctoral training level. Results supported a preference for integrating telepsychology within the current PWCs. Important next steps may include formation of an expert panel to assist in integrating telepsychology expectations for advance-level psychology trainees within the required PWCs for training programs.
Proponents of schema focused therapy (SFT) have accrued a growing and persuasive evidence base that indicates it as one of a small number of treatments for personality difficulties and associated issues. However, unlike other treatments, SFT’s focus has predominantly remained on adults with enduring and chronic psychopathology. This comprehensive narrative review firstly aims to articulate the theoretical application of SFT as a means of addressing suitable psychological vulnerabilities and associated issues with adolescents. In addition, the review aims to highlight the potential use of SFT techniques when integrated into parental interventions as a means of strengthening the parent-child relationship. Finally, the review aims to synthesize the accumulation of SFT research applicable to work with adolescents and parents with a view towards delineating future treatment development and clinical application among a wide range of mental health and social care professions.
Major life events, such as living through a pandemic, can have profound influences on development. The COVID-19 pandemic presented unprecedented challenges to the ways in which parents lived their lives. Mothers’ workloads were magnified as they had to balance their own responsibilities and those of their children all within the confines of the home. Little is known about how mothers adapted over time and what they took away from the experience of living through this global crisis. The objective of the current study was to explore how life has changed for mothers three years after COVID-19 was designated a pandemic. Thirty mothers (Mage= 39) living in the Western United States participated in an interview between March and April 2023. Reflexive thematic analysis grounded within a hermeneutic phenomenological approach was used to analyze the transcripts. Four themes and one subtheme were identified around changes in perspective, family intimacy, gratitude, friendships, and coping tools. Mothers’ discussions highlighted both growth and challenges. They described increased feelings of family connectedness and agency, while also expressing negative shifts in their views on the goodness of humanity. The findings reveal that the pandemic had lasting impacts on mothers’ socioemotional and cognitive development, particularly in terms of relationships and worldviews. These effects are discussed within a context of a bioecological systems framework and life course theory. Insights from mothers’ lived experiences may provide valuable guidance for policymakers, healthcare professionals, and mental health practitioners, in developing interventions that can support mothers during and after crises.
Purpose: Autistic children have an increased likelihood of anxiety, but more research is needed on the characteristics that predict various types of anxiety in this population. Methods: In this study, we examined a range of child and family predictors of various types of anxiety using a sample of 452 autistic children from the Australian Autism Biobank. We used logistic regression to examine child and family predictors of four common types of anxiety in autistic children: generalised, phobic, separation, and social anxiety. Results: We found that 62.8% of children in this sample had symptoms of at least one type of anxiety. Poor quality sleep habits were the only predictive factor consistently identified across all anxiety symptom types. Specific to children with indicated generalised, separation, and phobic anxiety symptoms were the predictive factors of being older than five years, and specific to generalised and social anxiety were the predictive factors of higher cognitive abilities. Maternal anxiety was also a predictive factor in indicated children’s separation anxiety. Conclusion: These findings can help inform the provision of more targeted support for autistic people, particularly the interaction of poor sleep habits and anxiety symptoms.
The psychological resilience of teachers has gained significant attention due to its positive effects on schools and students. This cross-sectional quantitative study investigates the moderating roles of gender and the length of time spent with the school principal in the relationship between principals' empowering leadership behaviors and teachers' psychological resilience. Data were collected from 362 teachers working in public primary, secondary, and high schools in Siirt, Türkiye. Descriptive statistics, correlation analysis, and moderation analysis using the bootstrapping method were applied to analyze the data. The findings reveal that the empowering leadership behaviors of school principals positively correlate with teachers' psychological resilience, with variations based on gender and time spent with the principal. Specifically, the relationship is stronger for female teachers compared to male teachers and for those who have spent more time with the school principal. These results offer theoretical insights and practical recommendations for enhancing teacher resilience through leadership practices, highlighting the importance of understanding contextual and demographic factors.
The COVID-19 pandemic disproportionately affected those with caregiving responsibilities and its impacts continue. Through the fall of 2022, the circulation of RSV, influenza, and COVID-19 – a “tripledemic” – placed parents and caregivers in precarious situations with few COVID-19 supports available and less flexibility in work arrangements, potentially increasing family-to-work conflict (FWC). This mixed-methods study incorporates online survey data from the January 2023 Alberta Viewpoint Survey (N= 1196) and interview data collected from May-August 2023 (N= 23) to study the strategies families and caregivers used during the tripledemic to manage FWC in a time of high uncertainty. We find that parents, especially mothers, were most likely to miss work for extended periods, leading to a greater potential for FWC among these groups. Parents’ ability to manage FWC depended on the resources available to them, which were highly unequal. Those who were able to take advantage of workplace, relationship, and network resources were better able to limit FWC during these uncertain times. Findings contribute to larger understandings of family-to-work conflict by highlighting how parents attempt to manage uncertainty and the inequalities in available resources.
Despite enduring global efforts to reduce suicide incidence, over 700,000 people die by suicide annually, and rates remain near their all-time highs. Early detection of suicidal ideation (SI) provides the opportunity to intervene, although the speed of the suicide process and the aperiodic nature of self-harm screenings present major obstacles. In the U.S. and elsewhere, health inequities and sparse psychiatric services exacerbate these challenges. New approaches are needed to enable rapid risk stratification and connect individuals in crisis to the right level of care, regardless of when or where SI occurs. To that end, we investigated a location-agnostic, asynchronous approach to modelingcurrent SI riskusing affective and physiological self-reports ofN= 30,725 individuals. We implemented ecological momentary assessment (EMA) “trackers” within a digital behavioral health (dBH) platform between 1 May 2021 and 31 August 2023. These trackers elicited optional self-reports on sleep quality, stress, mood, and pain on an 11-point scale. We analyzed the resulting retrospective EMA dataset alongside participants’qualifying self-harm questionsfrom concurrent assessments (e.g., Patient Health Questionnaire-9). First, we conducted exploratory binomial tests and linear least squares regressions and found strong cursory associations between EMA tracker severity and SI risk. These tests motivated our hypothesis that EMA tracker data could significantly predict current SI risk in more rigorous analyses. Next, we used sequential logistic regression to control for the overrepresentation of trackers and/or assessmentsbetweenindividuals. Finally, we used multilevel logistic regression to control for the EMA tracker and assessment historywithinindividuals. Our analyses revealed significant associations between sleep, stress, mood trackers, and SI risk. Notably, mood emerged as a powerful SI predictor across multiple analyses. Our findings suggest that EMA trackers are well poised to integrate with tech-enabled suicide prevention frameworks to support low-latency, individualized care and improve health equity in underserved communities.
BackgroundAvoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID) may result in significant medical sequelae. Compared to youth with eating disorders like anorexia nervosa (AN), youth with ARFID tend to be younger and are more likely to be male. We aim to describe sex differences in clinical characteristics of youth hospitalized for medical complications of ARFID and compare their characteristics with youth hospitalized for anorexia nervosa.MethodsThis is a retrospective review of electronic medical records for youth with ARFID (N= 36; 13 male and 23 female) and AN (N= 355; 40 male and 315 female), including restricting and binge-eating/purging subtypes, aged 9–25 admitted to the inpatient UCSF Eating Disorders Program (2012–2020).ResultsA greater proportion of youth with ARFID were male compared to youth with AN (36.1% vs. 11.2%). Male youth with ARFID (mean age 15.5 ± 2.8) had lower heart rate nadir (49.2 vs. 57.6 beats per minute,p= .019) and lower total cholesterol (129.8 vs. 159.3 mg/dL,p= .008), but higher hemoglobin (13.9 vs. 13.0 g/dL,p= .015) and prescribed calories at discharge (3323 vs. 2817 kcal,p= .001) compared to females with ARFID. Males with AN, who on average had higher admission BMI than males with ARFID (17.3 vs. 15.5 kg/m2,p= .013), required more (3785) kcal on discharge to restore medical stability than males with ARFID (3323 kcal). Compared to all youth with AN, youth with ARFID had lower body mass index (BMI, 15.7 vs. 17.0 kg/m2,p= .001) and lower vitamin D (26.5 vs. 33.0 ng/mL,p= .003).ConclusionsARFID in males is associated with lower heart rate nadirs than in females with ARFID. Clinicians should be aware of unique medical complications in youth with ARFID compared to youth with AN.
This article aims to reconceptualize the replication crisis as not merely a problem of flawed methods, lack of scientific rigor, or questionable researcher conduct, but as a fundamentally epistemological and philosophical issue. While improved methodologies and scientific practices are necessary, they must be considered through the lens of the underlying epistemologies. Toward this end, a new paradigm for psychological research and practice, grounded in second-order cybernetics and transactional causality, is proposed as instrumental. Second-order cybernetics, as introduced by Heinz von Foerster, challenges traditional scientific methodologies that assume a strict separation between the observer and the observed. The core idea is that the observer, through the very act of observing, inevitably becomes part of the system they study, leading to a shift from linear to transactional causality. This epistemological shift has profound implications for the research practice and the responsibility of the psychology practitioner. Foerster’s ethical imperative –act always so as to increase the number of choices– combined with the aesthetic imperative –If you desire to see,learn how to act– illuminates an alternative methodological landscape for the clinical practice. The replication crisis in psychology is examined in light of these theoretical shifts, allowing for a new constructive vision which integrates basic research with applied psychological practice. Second-order cybernetics encourages a participatory approach to research, emphasizing the catalyzing role of the observing practitioner. The article concludes by advocating for an epistemological superposition, where psychologists navigate multiple perspectives to enhance the integrity and applicability of their findings in the real world.
In 2021, the Welsh Government introduced new statutory guidance for schools titled ‘Framework Guidance on Embedding a Whole School Approach to Emotional and Mental Wellbeing’. This document outlined new responsibilities for educational settings to work towards incorporating a whole school approach, with regard to the Framework in action planning, service delivery and policy in relation to the mental and emotional wellbeing of learners and staff. While there is growing evidence to suggest that whole school approaches can be beneficial to social and emotional wellbeing for pupils, evidence on effective implementation is limited. This paper reports on findings from qualitative group interviews with staff in schools in Wales, conducted as part of a wider, mixed-methods evaluation of the Framework. It focuses on factors in the school context which impacted initial implementation. A number of school level factors were identified as barriers to implementation and staff engagement with the Framework. School staff reported higher levels of pupil mental health challenges stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic and an absence of capacity in in-house and external support services to address this. Poor staff wellbeing and significant workload pressures were also reported, driven in part by concurrent implementation of the new Curriculum For Wales. This led staff to feel ill-prepared for the more complex issues being faced, exacerbated by a lack of access to relevant training to be able to support pupil and colleague mental health. This paper concludes with recommendations for policy-makers to support Framework implementation.
IntroductionAttitudes of healthcare providers towards young people seeking sexual and reproductive health services (SRHS) are poorly described in research. Yet, this has implications for the promotion and operations of Youth Friendly Sexual and Reproductive Health Services (YFSRHS). This study seeks to identify and describe the overall treatments received by young people seeking SRHS.MethodA total of 31 qualitative sessions were conducted, comprising 20 in-depth interviews (IDIs) with healthcare providers and 11 focus group discussions (FGDs) with young people aged 15–24 years in Ebonyi state. The data were collected from December 2022 to March 2023. The analyses followed a coding reliability approach.ResultsFindings indicate that healthcare providers express both negative and positive attitudes when providing SRHS to young people. The attitude expressed is determined by the SRH sought and an intersection of social characteristics like age, gender, marital status and economic status. Thus, young unmarried persons may be reprimanded for seeking safe motherhood and newborn care, whereas young married persons are better received and treated positively. Young boys and girls experience negative treatment when seeking contraceptives but young girls are easily attended to when seeking information and counselling on SRH.ConclusionHealthcare providers’ attitude when dealing with young people seeking SRHS is influenced by multiple social dimensions, which reinforce discrimination and marginalisation.Policy ImplicationsPolicies that promote the provision of YFSRHS should consider the intersectional factors which trigger negative attitudes of healthcare providers that deliver these services.
This study investigated parental beliefs and experiences with cooperation among adults to overcome cyberbullying in Norwegian schools. Data comprised 17 semi-structured interviews conducted with parents of adolescents enrolled in primary or lower secondary schools in Norway. Reflexive thematic analysis revealed four themes: (1) individual and (2) organizational aspects influencing cooperation, (3) cyberbullying as a form of aggression, and (4) interactional dimensions of cooperation. These findings highlight the complexity of cyberbullying characteristics and mesosystemic cooperation, which require expertise in various fields. The viral and covert nature of cyberbullying requires adults to create spaces, online or offline, where children may safely report unwanted behaviors without the fear of retaliation. Any barriers to cooperation, such as language, lack of technological knowledge, and resource allocation, must be addressed. Immigrant parents contributed insights regarding barriers to cooperation due to cultural and linguistic differences. Attitudes, behaviors, and outcomes need to be addressed before cooperation based on trust, support, and realistic goals can be implemented.
BackgroundThere is a growing importance of loneliness measurement through valid and reliable instruments. However, to establish valid and reliable measures, there is a need to explore their psychometric properties in different research settings and language environments. For this reason, this study aimed to validate the Three Item Loneliness Scale (TILS) in the Czech Republic within a Slavonic language environment.MethodsA sample of Czech adults (n= 3236) was used consisting primarily of university students. We utilized Classical Test Theory to assess TILS internal consistency, temporal stability, and factor structure. Item Response Theory (IRT) was used to estimate Differential Item Functioning (DIF), the discrimination and difficulty of the TILS items and to estimate the measurement precision of the whole scale. Construct validity was explored through the Spearman correlation coefficient using personality traits, depression, and anxiety.ResultsThe results showed satisfactory reliability and validity of the TILS in the Czech Republic. The scale’s internal consistency and temporal stability were found to be satisfactory (Cronbach’sα= 0.81, McDonald’sω= 0.82, ICC = 0.71). The parallel analysis supported the unidimensionality of the TILS. The IRT results indicated that the highest measurement precision was reached in individuals with lower and above-average levels of loneliness. Significant correlations between the TILS scores, anxiety, depression, and personality traits supported the construct validity of the scale. Although the DIF analysis identified statistically significant differences in responses to items TILS_2 and TILS_3 based on education level and employment status (with no significant differences observed for TILS_1), the effect sizes of these differences were small. This indicates that, despite statistical significance, the practical impact on the scale’s validity across these groups is minimal.ConclusionsThe validated TILS provides a reliable and valid tool for assessing loneliness in the Czech Republic. Its brevity makes it a practical option for researchers and clinicians seeking to measure loneliness time-efficiently. Future studies should explore how adding new items could increase the measurement precision of the TILS.
Sighting dominance is an important behavioral property which has been difficult to measure quantitatively with high precision. We developed a measurement method that is grounded in a two-camera model that satisfies these aims. Using a simple alignment task, this method quantifies sighting ocular dominance during binocular viewing, identifying each eye’s relative contribution to binocular vision. The method involves placing a physical target between the viewer and a display. The viewer indicates the perceived target’s projection on the display with both eyes open and with only one eye open. The relative location of the binocular projection in relation to the two monocular projections is the index of dominance. The method produces a continuous variable with robust test–retest reliability (ICC = 0.96). The unit of measurement for the computed quantity is physiologically grounded: it is proportional to the distance between the monocular projections, which we show is predictable from interpupillary distance and phoria. Comparisons with the classic ‘hole in card’ sighting dominance test show good agreement, but also hint at potential bias for determining right-eye dominance in the latter. Interestingly, we find that some individuals systematically demonstrate nearly balanced vision, a phenomenon previously construed as mixed dominance or noisy responses. We also present ways to quantify and mitigate sources of random noise in this measurement. Overall, this new method allows for precise estimation of sighting dominance during binocular viewing. We expect it will allow a more effective understanding of the neural basis of dominance and improved effectiveness when using sighting dominance as a covariate in more complex analyses.
Recovery Colleges offer an innovative educational model focused on collaborative learning, emphasizing the lived experiences of individuals facing mental health challenges. The Recovery College Guetersloh-OWL (RC GT-OWL) exemplifies this approach, supporting and empowering participants through collective learning to enhance their mental well-being. This study aims to explore the subjective experiences and perceived value of participating in RC GT-OWL programs, with particular attention to their influence on students’ knowledge acquisition and individual recovery journeys. Forty-four students (N = 44) who engaged in RC GT-OWL courses participated in this study. Data collection involved an online survey informed by a modified version of the RECOLLECT Fidelity Measure, adapted and translated using Beaton et al.’s framework. Findings highlight RC GT-OWL’s role in fostering meaningful interpersonal relationships within and beyond the college setting. Participation was associated with personal growth, increased self-awareness, and significant contributions to students’ recovery processes. This study underscores the potential of recovery colleges to support mental health recovery through educational, peer-driven models. Continued research is recommended to further understand the mechanisms by which educational interventions, such as those implemented in recovery colleges, foster sustainable recovery and personal development.
Parental Reflective Functioning is considered a critical variable, both for the exercise of parenthood and for child development. For some years now, there has been a need for sufficiently sensitive and effective instruments to explore and evaluate Parental Reflective Functioning. This preliminary study presents the construction and validation of a short version of theParent Development Interview-Revised, which we callParent Development Interview-Brief.The main objective of this abbreviation is to maintain the semi-structured nature of the interview while decreasing the time needed to administer it. A multicenter and cross-sectional study with a normative sample of 60 mothers of children under five years of age with normotypical development is presented. To analyze the criterion validity of theParent Development Interview-Brief, participants completed theCuestionario de Apego Adulto [Adult Attachment Questionnaire]and theParenting Stress Index-Short Form.The psychometric qualities of the new instrument are discussed, as well as the need for sufficiently sensitive, reliable, and effective tools to tap Parental Reflective Functioning for use in clinical contexts and research.
The prevalence of autistic students in schools is continuously increasing. Typically, the social and sensory differences associated with autism can make the school environment difficult to manage. Autistic students are more likely to experience mental health difficulties than their non-autistic peers. It is therefore important to listen to autistic people about their educational experiences and explore ways that the environment could be changed to reduce anxiety.Purpose.The current research explores whether the relationship between school belonging and anxiety in secondary-aged autistic students is mediated by camouflaging.Methods.An anonymous online survey was completed by 72 autistic students attending mainstream schools in the UK and Ireland. The survey included questionnaires about school belonging (simple sense of belonging scale), anxiety (ASC-ASD) and camouflaging traits (CAT-Q). Further, the survey included open-ended questions about environmental factors related to school belonging and camouflaging. Qualitative content analysis was used to interpret answers to open ended questions.Results.The results found that, as predicted, camouflaging did mediate the relationship between school belonging and anxiety. Categories were created for each question, for example, ‘the school environment’ and ‘acceptance and understanding’.Conclusion. Social relationships; individual factors; the environment and adaptations, and acceptance and understanding, influence students’ sense of belonging.
BackgroundWhile recent studies suggest a high prevalence of Internet gaming disorder (IGD) in child and adolescent psychiatry (CAP) clinics, little is known about the factors contributing to problematic gaming among these patients. Given the well-established role of parenting and parent-child relationships in the development of problem behaviors, this study aimed to explore parent-child relationships within a Swedish cohort of CAP patients with IGD.MethodsA total of 72 adolescents from CAP clinics in Skane, Sweden, diagnosed with IGD based on DSM-V criteria (73% boys), aged 13 to 18 years were included in the study. The adolescents completed the Game Addiction Scale for Adolescents (GASA) and reported on aspects of parent-child communication, such as parental control and adolescent disclosure and secrecy, and family climate. Adolescents were categorized as engaged, problem or addicted gamers based on core approach. Independent sample t-tests, Pearsons’s correlations, and multivariate regression analyses were used to address the study goals.ResultsIndependent sample t-tests revealed that girls showed lower levels of parental knowledge than boys. Bivariate correlation analyses showed that IGD-symptoms were related to lower levels of child disclosure, while multivariate regression analyses revealed that higher IGD-symptoms were predicted by high levels of child secrecy and low child disclosure.ConclusionParent-child relationships, in particular adolescent information management to parents, plays an important role for the level of IGD-symptoms in a clinical sample of adolescents. We suggest that therapeutic interventions for IGD should integrate family-focused strategies, such as parent training programs fostering open communication between parents and their children.
This study aims to validate the Portuguese version of the Satisfaction with Life Scale (Cronbach’s alpha = 0.82) and the Positive and Negative Affect Scale (Cronbach’s alpha = 0.86 for positive affect and 0.89 for negative affect) for people with disabilities and to examine the association between engaging in physical activity and affective responses, investigating the relationship with satisfaction with life. 143 Portuguese with disabilities filled in the Portuguese version of the scales. The findings endorsed the single factorial structure and reliability of the Satisfaction with Life Scale [χ2/df = 6.3, B-Sp= 0.487, TLI = 0.989, CFI = 0.995, SRMR = 0.0263, RMSEA = 0.043 (CI = 0, 0.130)]. For Positive and Negative Affect Scale, the results also confirmed the factorial structure and reliability [χ2/df = 1.871, B-Sp= 0.114, TLI = 0.891, CFI = 0.918, SRMR = 0.0778, RMSEA = 0.078 (CI = 0.048, 0.108)]. On the other hand, the structural model presented satisfactory fit to the data [χ2/df = 1.436, B-Sp= 0.269, TLI = 0.917, CFI = 0.930, SRMR = 0.0748, RMSEA = 0.055 (CI = 0.033, 0.075)]. Significant direct effects have been found, as has been theoretically proposed, namely: years of practice displayed a positive and significant association with positive affect; positive affect was positively associated with satisfaction with life (β = 0.073, CI = 0.020, 0.139;p= 0.031).
Professor Nicola Clayton is perhaps best known for her work on food-caching scrub jays. Her seminal 1998 paper, together with Anthony Dickinson, showed that scrub jays could remember what food they had cached, where and how long ago, suggesting memory ability that is ‘episodic-like’ in nature. Here, we present data from a previously unpublished study that sought to replicate and extend these findings. The results replicate previous findings and address potential alternative explanations for earlier results. We argue that the controlled behavioural analyses introduced in this study have the potential to add nuance to our understanding of memory in scrub jay cache retrieval, and to inspire new studies exploring this phenomenon, about which we still have so much to learn.
Auditory iconic words display a phonological profile that imitates their referents’ sounds. Traditionally, those words are thought to constitute a minor portion of the auditory lexicon. In this article, we challenge this assumption by assessing the pervasiveness of onomatopoeia in the English auditory vocabulary through a novel data-driven procedure. We embed spoken words and natural sounds into a shared auditory space through (a) a short-time Fourier transform, (b) a convolutional neural network trained to classify sounds, and (c) a network trained on speech recognition. Then, we employ the obtained vector representations to measure their objective auditory resemblance. These similarity indexes show that imitation is not limited to some circumscribed semantic categories, but instead can be considered as a widespread mechanism underlying the structure of the English auditory vocabulary. We finally empirically validate our similarity indexes as measures of iconicity against human judgments.
The multiple-baseline design is a predominant experimental design in applied behavior-analytic research. Despite its strengths, when baseline lengths are assigned a priori, it is possible that the independent variable may be implemented when baseline data are trending in the same direction that is anticipated for positive treatment outcomes, thus threatening experimental control. A partial solution to this problem is to modify the traditional multiple-baseline design and stagger baselines across more than one dimension (e.g., across both individuals and settings). The purpose of this article is to describe the historical underpinnings of this approach, to highlight more recent uses of the design, and to emphasize possible areas suitable for application.
ObjectivesMeditative practice and experience increase sensitivity to bodily sensations and improve emotional well-being, but their influence on emotional body sensations has not been directly examined. Therefore, we aimed to measure bodily representations of emotion and relate them to mindfulness-related traits and skills.MethodUsing a sample of both mindfulness-naïve participants and experienced meditators, we applied the bodily maps of emotion task to measure emotional body sensations and relate them to mindfulness, using a preregistered analysis plan. Based on previous research, emotional body sensations were analyzed in terms of their magnitude, detail, and clarity.ResultsWe found that mindfulness skills and experience with meditation are related to several aspects of emotional body sensations, including sensation from key organ systems (the heart and stomach), and the level of detail and clarity of body sensations. We found that interpersonally focused mindfulness skills (e.g., empathy, compassion) are related to emotional body sensations across the sample, while intrapersonally focused skills (e.g., body awareness) are related to emotional body sensations only in experienced meditators.ConclusionsOur results show that mindfulness skills and practice are associated with enriched bodily representations of emotion, providing new insights into how mindfulness may improve self-awareness and emotion regulation.PreregistrationThe study’s analyses were preregistered athttps://osf.io/uxcbk.
Mental health services and treatment are unfortunately subject to sociodemographic disparities. To address this issue, recent studies have begun to apply analytics methods—that is, artificial intelligence in general, machine learning and deep learning in particular—toward the identification of such disparities and, where possible, mitigation of bias within models used in mental health research. However, it is difficult to understand the scope and status of such research as it is spread across many journals and contexts of study. Here we conducted an analysis of articles in this area. We identified 40 articles from 2017 to July 2023 related to the use of analytics in the context of sociodemographic disparities in mental health. We find that prediction, clustering/grouping and fairness models were most often applied in the articles analyzed. A number of mental health-related sociodemographic disparities were identified in these articles, for example, associated with race/ethnicity, gender, age and socioeconomic status, but such findings were typically context dependent. Thus, we also provide suggestions in this Analysis on how to both enhance generalizability and embrace context-dependent findings, especially via the identification of heterogeneous treatment effects, model bias mitigation, use of generative artificial intelligence, incorporation of data from devices, and translation of findings into practice.
Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is highly heritable and burdensome worldwide. Genome-wide association studies can provide new evidence regarding the etiology of AUD. We report a multi-ancestry genome-wide association study focusing on a narrow AUD phenotype, using novel statistical tools in a total sample of 1,041,450 individuals (102,079 cases; European, 75,583; African, 20,689 (mostly African American); Hispanic American, 3,449; East Asian, 2,254; South Asian, 104; descent). Cross-ancestry functional analyses were performed with European and African samples. Thirty-seven genome-wide significant loci (105 variants) were identified, of which seven were novel for AUD and six for other alcohol phenotypes. Loci were mapped to genes, which show altered expression in brain regions relevant for AUD (striatum, hypothalamus and prefrontal cortex) and encode potential drug targets (GABAergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons). African-specific analysis yielded a unique pattern of immune-related gene sets. Polygenic overlap and positive genetic correlations showed extensive shared genetic architecture between AUD and both mental and general medical phenotypes, suggesting that they are not only complications of alcohol use but also share genetic liability with AUD. Leveraging a cross-ancestry approach allowed identification of novel genetic loci for AUD and underscores the value of multi-ancestry genetic studies. These findings advance our understanding of AUD risk and clinically relevant comorbidities.
Purpose: Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) often show abnormal speech prosody. Tonal languages can pose more difficulties as speakers need to use acoustic cues to make lexical contrasts while encoding the focal function, but the acquisition of speech prosody of non-native languages, especially tonal languages has rarely been investigated. Methods: This study aims to fill in the aforementioned gap by studying prosodic focus-marking in Mandarin by native Cantonese-speaking children with ASD (n = 25), in comparison with their typically developing (TD) peers (n = 20) and native Mandarin-speaking children (n = 20). Natural prosodic marking of different types of focus was elicited by picture-based prompt questions, recorded and analyzed acoustically. Results: The autistic children made use of fewer acoustic cues and produced less evident on-focus expansion in these cues than TD, especially the native-Mandarin speaking peers. They also demonstrated a clear preference to on-focus expansion than to post-focus compression. These children, together with their native Cantonese-speaking peers, also hyper-performed in tone realization, prioritizing lexical prosody over focus marking. Such hyper-performance may further limit their use of prosodic cues in focus marking. However, the difficulties the autistic children faced in the acquisition of speech prosody in a non-native tone language, though found, are not more than those they face in their mother tongue. Conclusion: Multilingual exposure may help the autistic children master the use of some focus marking strategies though they still need interventions to help them to implement their focus-marking knowledge more sufficiently in both native and non-native languages.
The present study aims to investigate the impacts of father-child communication on the mental health of left-behind children (LBC), and the role of maternal migration and mother-child communication in this correlations. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Anhui, China, from April 2018 to March 2019. Among 5253 valid responses, 1599 LBC who self-reported that their fathers were migrants at the time of the survey were included in the present study. There are three major findings: first, maternal migration can negatively influence LBC’s father-child communication frequency and quality; second, both higher father-child communication frequency and quality can promote LBC’s mental health; third, mother-child communication can enhance the protective effects of father-child communication quality on LBC’s mental health. Thus, we propose that, to promote the mental health of children with both parents migrating, it is of great importance for mothers and fathers to realize that direct father-child communication matters. And more direct father-child communication should be encouraged for children with both parents migrating.
The degree of semantic equivalence of translation pairs is typically measured by asking bilinguals to rate the semantic similarity of them or comparing the number and meaning of dictionary entries. Such measures are subjective, labor-intensive, and unable to capture the fine-grained variation in the degree of semantic equivalence. Thompson et al. (inNature Human Behaviour,4(10), 1029–1038,2020) propose a computational method to quantify the extent to which translation equivalents are semantically aligned by measuring the contextual use across languages. Here, we refine this method to quantify semantic alignment of English–Chinese translation equivalents using word2vec based on the proposal that the degree of similarity between the contexts associated with a word and those of its multiple translations vary continuously. We validate our measure using semantic alignment from GloVe and fastText, and data from two behavioral datasets. The consistency of semantic alignment induced across different models confirms the robustness of our method. We demonstrate that semantic alignment not only reflects human semantic similarity judgment of translation equivalents but also captures bilinguals’ usage frequency of translations. We also show that our method is more cognitively plausible than Thompson et al.’s method. Furthermore, the correlations between semantic alignment and key psycholinguistic factors mirror those between human-rated semantic similarity and these variables, indicating that computed semantic alignment reflects the degree of semantic overlap of translation equivalents in the bilingual mental lexicon. We further provide the largest English–Chinese translation equivalent dataset to date, encompassing 50,088 translation pairs for 15,734 English words, their dominant Chinese translation equivalents, and their semantic alignmentRcvalues.
Jessel et al. (Behavior Analysis in Practice, 17, 727–745,2024) demonstrated that results from the performance-based, interview-informed synthesized contingency analysis (IISCA) had strong correspondence when compared to typical IISCA procedures and produced positive outcomes with resultant functional communication training procedures. On the basis of the assumption that functional analyses may include potentially adverse events insofar as they deliberately and repeatedly arrange conditions suspected to evoke dangerous behavior, Jessel and colleagues argued in favor of aligning functional analysis procedures with guidelines of trauma-informed care. We replicated and extended Jessel et al. (Behavior Analysis in Practice, 17, 727–745,2024) by conducting a performance-based IISCA with three children with autism referred for behavioral services due to dangerous behavior and by evaluating a comprehensive skill-based treatment informed by the performance-based IISCA. The skill-based treatment resulted in the eventual elimination of dangerous behavior and the acquisition of multiple important skills, with caregivers implementing treatment sessions for two of the three participants. Assessment and intervention procedures and outcomes were socially validated by all participating families.
This article addresses the problem of measurement invariance in psychometrics. In particular, its focus is on the invariance assumption of item parameters in a class of models known as Rasch models. It suggests a mixed-effects or random intercept model for binary data together with a conditional likelihood approach of both estimating and testing the effects of multiple covariates simultaneously. The procedure can also be viewed as a multivariate multiple regression analysis which can be applied in longitudinal designs to investigate effects of covariates over time or different experimental conditions. This work also derives four statistical tests based on asymptotic theory and a parameter-free test suitable in small sample size scenarios. Finally, it outlines generalizations for categorical data in more than two categories. All procedures are illustrated on real-data examples from behavioral research and on a hypothetical data example related to clinical research in a longitudinal design.
BackgroundThe need for educational institutions to create a conducive learning environment for participation of all students in school activities is one of the pillars advocated under Goal 4 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. While there are structures institutionalized to promote students’ well-being, universities are faced with a myriad of challenges which can negatively impact mental health and disrupt the overall learning experiences of students. This study explored the relationship between Emotional Intelligence and Self-Esteem which have been found to influence the mental health of students.MethodInformed by the cross-sectional design, one thousand and twenty (N= 1020) university students were recruited to self-report their Emotional Intelligence and Self-Esteem. The participants completed the Schutte Emotional Intelligence scale and the Rosenberg’s Self-Esteem scale. The data were validated using confirmatory factor analysis, means were computed, followed by multivariate analysis of variance and hierarchical multiple regression.ResultsThe study showed that participants were ambivalent on both EI and self-esteem. The hypothesized relationship between Emotional Intelligence and Self-Esteem was supported by the study findings. More so, demographic variables such as gender, religion and programme of study provided further insight into Emotional Intelligence and Self-Esteem of participants.ConclusionIn conclusion, the researchers of this study called on educators and university administrators to prioritize the Emotional Intelligence and Self-Esteem of students in mental health interventions. The need for partnership between administrators and religious leaders and other study implications, are discussed.
This research aimed to establish whether 12 weeks of bicycle-riding skills exercises with massed and distributed practice frequency at low and high intensity affect communication performance and stereotyped behavior among adolescent boys with autism. Fifty autistic boys aged 13.3 ± 1.32 years participated in the study. The participants were divided into homogeneous experimental groups (N= 10) with dissimilar training frequencies and intensities, along with a control group. Pre-tests using the GARS-2 test were administered to assess stereotyped behavior and communication skills, followed by post-tests and a one-month follow-up. Non-parametric Kruskal Wallis and ANCOVA results at a significance level of 0.05 showed that there was a significant difference in the post-test of stereotyped behavior and communication skills (p= 0.001 andp= 0.002, respectively) and follow-up test one month later (p= 0.003,p= 0.048, respectively) between the intervention and control groups after performing bike riding skills exercises with low and high intensities and frequencies (one and three sessions per week). Regardless of the intensity and frequency, bike riding skills training during the critical period of adolescence can significantly reduce stereotyped behaviors and enhance communication skills, which can also support positive development in other domains for individuals with autism.
IntroductionThe Big Five Inventory (BFI) is a popular measure that evaluates personality on the Big-Five model. Apart from its utilization across cultures, the literature did not reveal any meta-analysis for the reliability of the different versions of the BFI and its translations. The current study carried out a reliability generalization meta-analysis (REGEMA) to establish the reliability of the BFI across cultures and languages.MethodsWe searched 30 databases for the relevant studies from 1991 to mid-November 2024. The studies that we intended to include in our meta-analysis required to have utilized the BFI (44 items) and the BFI-2 (60 items) and have reported Cronbach's alpha or McDonald's omega reliability estimates. Our coded variables included BFI version, sample size, population type, age, gender, clinical state, and reliability. A total of 57 studies (datapoints) published in 34 research articles (involving 43,715 participants; 60.24% women; Mean age = 30.08) from various cultures and languages were finally included. These studies used BFI and BFI-2 in Arabic, Chinese, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Indonesian, Italian, Japanese, Malay, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Serbian, Spanish, Swahili, and Turkish. Data analysis was conducted using the metafor and meta packages in R. The average correlation was computed using a random-effects model and reliability coefficients indicated effect size. I2and Cochran's Q tests were used to examine heterogeneity, with prediction intervals suggesting genuine influences around the pooled estimate. Using funnel plots, regression-based tests (e.g., Egger's regression, rank correlation), and trim-and-fill imputation, publication bias was adjusted to estimate unbiased effects.ResultsWe calculated the individual and combined reliability of the BFI and BFI-2 across languages and cultures. The results revealed the reliability of all five factors used in the BFI/BFI-2. The BFI estimates provide the following results: openness is estimated at 0.77 (95% CI: 0.75; 0.80); conscientiousness is estimated at 0.80 (95% CI: 0.78; 0.82); extraversion is also estimated at 0.80 (95% CI: 0.79; 0.82); agreeableness is estimated at 0.73 (95% CI: 0.71; 0.76); and neuroticism is estimated at 0.80 (95% CI: 0.79; 0.82). The BFI-2 estimates are as follows: openness is estimated at 0.83 (95% CI: 0.82; 0.84); conscientiousness is estimated at 0.86 (95% CI: 0.85; 0.87); extraversion is estimated at 0.85 (95% CI: 0.84; 0.86); agreeableness is also estimated at 0.80 (95% CI: 0.79; 81); and neuroticism is estimated at 0.89 (95% CI: 0.88; 0.89).ConclusionThe current meta-analysis represents the first reliability analysis of the BFI and the first comparison between its two different versions, the BFI (44 items) and the BFI-2 (60 items). The generalized reliability of both the BFI and BFI-2 were established. The findings confirm that the BFI and BFI-2 have good reliability across all five factors.
Depression is among the most prevalent mental health issues affecting adolescents. Parents may play an important role in identifying warning signs of depression and providing support. However, little is known about how parents understand and respond to the early signs of adolescent depression, or their depression literacy (DL). The factors associated with their DL are also unclear. This questionnaire-based study aimed to explore DL in a sample of primary caregivers (n= 321,Mage= 46.2 years, 76% female) of 12–18-year-old adolescents living in the Republic of Ireland, through responses to a vignette depicting a character displaying symptoms of depression. Two-thirds (66.7%) attributed the character’s symptoms to depression, while 92.2% believed the character needed help. One third (34.6%) believed asking the adolescent about suicide would be harmful. Only parent empathy significantly predicted labelling the symptoms as ‘depression’. Contrary to hypotheses, there were no significant differences identified based on parents’ gender, their child’s gender, or their child’s age. To our knowledge, this study is the first to explore the link between empathy and DL in parents, and may inform targeted interventions to improve DL.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is characterized by impairments in social affective engagement. The present study uses a mild social stressor task to add to inconclusive past literature concerning differences in affective expressivity between autistic young adults and non-autistic individuals from the general population (GP). Young adults (mean age = 21.5) diagnosed with ASD (n= 18) and a non-autistic comparison group (n= 17) participated in the novel social stress task. Valence (positive/negative) and intensity of facial affect were coded across four observational episodes that alternated between engagement and disengagement of social conversational partner. Results indicated an overall attenuation in expressivity in the ASD group in comparison to the non-autistic group. Mean affect differed between groups, especially in the amount of affective expression. Both groups responded with increased positive expressions during social engagement episodes. The affect difference was driven by a smaller proportion of positive and a greater proportion of neutral affect displays in the ASD group compared to the non-autistic group during these episodes, and less so by negative affect differences. The results suggest that friendly, non-threatening social interactions should not be assumed to be aversive to autistic individuals, and that these individuals may respond to such situations with muted positive valence. These findings are consistent with past reports of decreased expressivity in autistic individuals compared to individuals from the general population, specifically in an ecologically valid social context.
The Beyond Reality Image Collection (BRIC) is a set of 648 photos, some painted by an artist and some generated by artificial intelligence. Unlike previous photosets, the BRIC focused on nonrealistic visuals. This collection includes abstract and non-abstract paintings and nonrealistic photographs depicting objects, scenes, animals, humans, and fantastical creatures with varying degrees of unreal elements. We collected evaluative ratings of the photos, using a convenience sample of 16,208 participants in a total of 25,321 sessions. We used multiple evaluation measures: binary positive/negative and like/dislike categorization, seven-point ratings on these attributes, both under no time pressure and under time pressure, and evaluative priming scores. The mean evaluation of the photos on the different measures was highly correlated, but some photos consistently elicited a discrepant evaluative reaction between the measures. The BRIC is a valuable resource for eliciting evaluative reactions and can contribute to research on evaluative processes and affective responses.
IntroductionSex workers overlap demographically with individuals who are pushed into informal economies due to their marginalized identities. Although policies increasing the criminalization of sex work are not regarded as hate politics, we argue that these policies are de facto hate policies against LGBTQ + communities and other marginalized groups.MethodsWe utilize a literature review of nine empirical studies (2018–2023) on the effects of SESTA/FOSTA, a sex worker hate policy, as well as 25 interviews from a 2022 community-based study on the effects of California Senate Bill 233 (SB233), which decriminalized condom possession.ResultsSESTA/FOSTA harmed sex workers by reducing their income, restricting access to safety and screening resources, increasing the risk of exploitation and violence, and removing online spaces for community building and political organizing. Moreover, marginalized sex workers felt these effects most keenly. The SB233 interviews further revealed that condom possession was utilized as a means for law enforcement to harass trans women through pervasive harassment, deadnaming, and forcing sexual encounters with the threat of violence and jail time.ConclusionsSESTA/FOSTA reveals how policies increasing the criminalization of sex workers also hate policies against marginalized groups. However, policies reducing the criminalization of sex workers, such as SB233, may be ineffective without community involvement. For this reason, we recommend community-based policies like SB357, which repealed loitering with intent.Policy ImplicationsHate politics increase carceral investments, leading to police harassment and surveillance of marginalized groups. We recommend community-led policy suggestions as an alternative.
The development of Chinese characters spans from the Han dynasty’s "Six Methods of Formation and Usage" to the contemporary "Three Methods," prompting scholars to explore Chinese character. This exploration reveals a typology that merges "truth" (veritas) and "conceptual thinking" (ratio) with "visual imagery" (Bildhaftigkeit, iconicity), highlighting the complex interplay between authenticity and conceptualization in character design. Chinese characters are formed through the human observation of worldly shapes, creating meaningful symbols through imaginative depiction. These symbols, mirroring the forms and sounds of various objects, enable the creation of new textual symbols with novel meanings. The character creation method from the traditional "Six Methods," has not been explored by previous studies. The aim of this paper was to examine ancient Chinese character symbolism, as seen in "Shuowen Jiezi," oracle bones, and bronze inscriptions, alongside bamboo and silk texts. It explored the relationship between cognitive linguistics and symbol visualization, analyzing both the explicit and implicit meanings of these symbols. By extending beyond established theories of character formation, the study probed into alternative creation method of Chinse characters. The distinct categories of characters were developed, including "using physical images to express objects" and "borrowing shapes to express things; focusing on shape/image to simulate terms" This approach highlights a variety of imagination are embedded within the character creation methods.
Whether it is listening to a piece of music, learning a new language, or solving a mathematical equation, people often acquire abstract notions in the sense of motifs and variables—manifested in musical themes, grammatical categories, or mathematical symbols. How do we create abstract representations of sequences? Are these abstract representations useful for memory recall? In addition to learning transition probabilities, chunking, and tracking ordinal positions, we propose that humans also use abstractions to arrive at efficient representations of sequences. We propose and study two abstraction categories: projectional motifs and variable motifs. Projectional motifs find a common theme underlying distinct sequence instances. Variable motifs contain symbols representing sequence entities that can change. In two sequence recall experiments, we train participants to remember sequences with projectional and variable motifs, respectively, and examine whether motif training benefits the recall of novel sequences sharing the same motif. Our result suggests that training projectional and variables motifs improve transfer recall accuracy, relative to control groups. We show that a model that chunks sequences in an abstract motif space may learn and transfer more efficiently, compared to models that learn chunks or associations on a superficial level. Our study suggests that humans construct efficient sequential memory representations according to the two types of abstraction we propose, and creating these abstractions benefits learning and out-of-distribution generalization. Our study paves the way for a deeper understanding of human abstraction learning and generalization.
IntroductionSex workers overlap demographically with individuals who are pushed into informal economies due to their marginalized identities. Although policies increasing the criminalization of sex work are not regarded as hate politics, we argue that these policies are de facto hate policies against LGBTQ + communities and other marginalized groups.MethodsWe utilize a literature review of nine empirical studies (2018–2023) on the effects of SESTA/FOSTA, a sex worker hate policy, as well as 25 interviews from a 2022 community-based study on the effects of California Senate Bill 233 (SB233), which decriminalized condom possession.ResultsSESTA/FOSTA harmed sex workers by reducing their income, restricting access to safety and screening resources, increasing the risk of exploitation and violence, and removing online spaces for community building and political organizing. Moreover, marginalized sex workers felt these effects most keenly. The SB233 interviews further revealed that condom possession was utilized as a means for law enforcement to harass trans women through pervasive harassment, deadnaming, and forcing sexual encounters with the threat of violence and jail time.ConclusionsSESTA/FOSTA reveals how policies increasing the criminalization of sex workers also hate policies against marginalized groups. However, policies reducing the criminalization of sex workers, such as SB233, may be ineffective without community involvement. For this reason, we recommend community-based policies like SB357, which repealed loitering with intent.Policy ImplicationsHate politics increase carceral investments, leading to police harassment and surveillance of marginalized groups. We recommend community-led policy suggestions as an alternative.
The Family First Prevention Services Act requires youth’s placement in residential care to be clinically appropriate, time-limited, and only when youth’s needs cannot be met in family-like settings in foster care. State child welfare agencies can benefit from upstream, empirical decision support to preempt youth’s placement disruption, coordinate proactive placement stabilization services, prevent unnecessary step-up to residential care, and improve outcomes for the youth. This statewide case study explores the potential benefit to child welfare decision support for placement stabilization and diversion from residential care, by comparing predictive machine learning (ML) models with conventional regression models. We analyzed child welfare spells of 12,621 youth in one large Midwestern state between January 2017 and January 2020. Caseworkers could refer youth to a placement stabilization and preservation program. To predict youth’s monthly program need in the next 6 months, we developed and validated a wide grid of ML models—random forest, regularized logistic regression, decision tree, dummy classifier—and a conventional unregularized logistic regression model, using literature-informed predictors from child welfare administrative data. We retrained, retested, and compared all models over time using temporal hold-out sets. Based on anticipated program capacity, model evaluation focused on accuracy in identifying the 100 highest-need youth, fairness, and equity of resource allocation. Random forest models produced the best performance with a precision (positive predictive value) 10 times greater than baseline precision. Common important predictors across models included youth’s age, history of placement changes, and emotional/behavioral needs. We discuss potential applications of ML to support preventive child welfare decisions, adapt to policy changes, and allocate limited resources.
Tests of Self-Conscious Affect (TOSCAs) are a group of scenario-based dispositional scales frequently used to measure individual differences in shame and guilt. The main aim of the present research was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the Serbian version of TOSCA for adolescents (TOSCA-A) and to further explore the validity of guilt and shame measures. TOSCA-A was evaluated in three samples: 114 primary school students, 256 high-school students, and 365 college students. Several models were tested, but two-factor oblique solution had the best fit in all three groups. However, both shame and guilt demonstrated high internal consistency. Convergent validity of shame-proneness was also demonstrated by moderate correlations with self-esteem, perceived stress, and different affects. Results related to the measure of guilt were less consistent across age groups. Finally, we showed that guilt is a reliable measure of someone's motivation to make amends or apologize and someone’s feelings of remorse and regret - rather than feeling of guilt.
ObjectivesEquanimity is widely recognized as a fundamental component of change within mindfulness practice. The Equanimity Scale-16 (ES-16), which consists of two subscales—Experiential Acceptance and Non-reactivity—was designed to measure equanimity. However, the cross-cultural applicability of this scale has not yet been evaluated. The present study assessed the psychometric properties of the Equanimity Scale in the context of Eastern collectivist culture.MethodA total of 569 college students (371 females and 198 males) were recruited through two online data platforms. They completed the Equanimity Scale (ES-16) alongside several measures, including the Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ), the Nonattachment Scale, the Spiritual Index of Well-Being Scale, the Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS), and the Beck Depression Inventory-II. The exploratory factor analysis and confirmatory factor analysis were conducted to examine the factorial validity of the ES-16, focusing on one-factor, two-factor, and bifactor models. Meanwhile, the reliability, convergent validity, and incremental validity were examined through correlation analyses and hierarchical regression analyses.ResultsSix items (1, 4, 7, 9, 10, and 11) in the original scale with 16 items were removed for lower communalities (< 0.30), lower cross-load difference (< 0.15), or the smaller number of factor items (< 2) in the Chinese context. The remaining 10 items did not support the two-factor model; instead, they indicated support for the bifactor model, which provided the best fit. The Equanimity Scale-10 (ES-10) demonstrated good convergent validity, discriminant validity, construct reliability, and predictive validity within the Chinese cultural context. However, it explained for only 41.89% of the total variance.ConclusionsThe ES-10 is a valid and reliable self-report measure for assessing equanimity within a bifactor model in the Chinese context. However, the variance explained for ES-16 and ES-10 is relatively low, with none exceeding 50%. Additionally, there are significant conceptual differences between these measures and the non-reactivity factor of the FFMQ. Consequently, it is recommended to develop an assessment tool with improved content validity and structural validity to better capture the construct of equanimity.
Pedestrian attitude is an important issue in road safety. In order to understand pedestrian attitudes, it is necessary to study their sociodemographic and psychological characteristics. With respect to this, the aim of the study was to examine age and sex differences in impulsive behavior and the role of impulsive behavior on pedestrian attitudes in Türkiye. A total of 347 Turkish pedestrians (145 male, 202 female) completed the Pedestrian Attitude Questionnaire (PAQ), the Urgency Premeditation Perseverance Sensation Seeking (UPPS) Impulsive Behavior Scale, and a Questionnaire Form. First, the psychometric structure of the PAQ was found to support the original structure, addressing attitudes towards other road users and attitudes towards traffic rules. With increasing age, negative attitudes towards traffic rules decreased. Female pedestrians also showed more negative attitudes towards other road users. The results of hierarchical regression analyses indicate that impulsive behavior is significantly associated with pedestrian attitudes depending on sociodemographic factors. The findings suggest that pedestrians’ impulsive behavior may influence their attitudes in traffic, but this influence varies by age and sex. The outcomes have important implications for intervention studies and road safety.
This study examines the transformative impact of a 6-week mindfulness-based training program on managers within the framework of humanistic management principles. Implemented as a randomized controlled trial (RCT), the research involved 97 managers from the R&D department of a technology development company in Turkiye. Participants were allocated to either an intervention group (N= 47) or a waitlist control group (N= 50), with assessments conducted at three time points: pre-test, post-test, and a 16-week follow-up. The findings reveal significant improvements in empathy, mindfulness, and wisdom among managers who completed the program, compared to those who did not. While the impact on inclusive leadership was less pronounced, the results indicate potential benefits for organizational culture as a whole. This study provides empirical evidence supporting the efficacy of mindfulness-based interventions in fostering key elements of humanistic management—such as empathy, mindfulness, and wisdom—and underscores their broader implications for cultivating a more humanistically oriented workplace.
In the literature about bullying prevention and intervention, still little is known about teacher and school characteristics possibly affecting an implementation of a whole-school approach anti-bullying programme. This study investigates the relations of teachers’ anti-bullying components at classroom and individual levels with teachers’ sociodemographics (gender, age, work experience and teaching in primary vs lower and upper secondary school) and school features (size, and duration of working with a whole-school approach anti-bullying programme). Teachers (n= 1576) in 99 Lithuanian schools implementing the Olweus Bullying Prevention Program answered a standardised online self-administered questionnaire. Through an Exploratory Factor Analysis (Principal Axis Factoring extraction method), we individuated a model of teachers’ implementation of anti-bullying components, consisting of three dimensions: classroom management, tutorship (organisation of class meetings and work with parents) and direct intervention into bullying incidents. In multilevel analyses, significant associations emerged between the three dimensions, teacher socio-demographics and school characteristics. Female teachers put more effort than male teachers into classroom management, tutorship and intervention into bullying incidents. Younger teachers put more effort than older teachers into all the three dimensions. Primary school teachers put more effort into classroom management and tutorship dimensions. Teachers with more working experience put more effort into intervening into bullying incidents. Lastly, teachers from certified Olweus schools with a longer duration of implementing the OBBP put more effort into direct intervention into bullying incidents. These results shed light on relevant characteristics affecting teachers’ efforts within anti-bullying components that need to be considered when implementing interventions.
The human papillomavirus (HPV) causes health problems, including but not limited to cancers of the cervix, penis, anus, and oropharynx. HPV vaccines are recommended to significantly reduce the prevalence and incidence of these health problems in males and females. Resource-limited countries, including Nigeria, experience high burdens of HPV-associated diseases. However, certain barriers within the health system may prevent the Nigerian general public who are eligible for vaccination from accessing the vaccines, and this area of research is underexplored in the country. Employing the World Health Organization’s framework of health system building blocks, the authors investigate this problem. The study involved a convenient sample of 40 participants (27 females and 13 males). Data were collected using an online survey comprising three sections, and thematic analysis was performed on the main data. Findings uncover factors in the six health system building blocks that serve as barriers to accessing the vaccines. These include the long waiting time generally experienced by patients in health facilities, insufficient awareness campaigns about the vaccination services, limited access to the vaccination services in rural and underserved areas, shaming from health care providers to patients who want to receive the vaccines, the lack of knowledgeable health care providers to educate the general public about the vaccines, shortage of human resources for health, cultural insensitivity among health care providers, inadequate assessment of patients’ HPV vaccination status by health care providers, and inefficient tracking of vaccine stocks. The factors also include the lack of technology for the vaccine production, improper storage of the vaccines in health facilities, insufficient government budgetary allocation for procurement of the vaccines, scarcity of health insurance with coverage of the vaccine cost, poor political will to improve the vaccination access, bad leadership in the country’s health system resulting in public doubt about the vaccines and health facilities administering them, absence of motorable roads for the public to access the vaccines in health facilities within rural settings, and coordination challenges in the vaccination programmes arising from shared management of the vaccination programmes among multiple government agencies or departments. Although the study provides comprehensive country-specific information on health system barriers to accessing HPV vaccines in Nigeria, its findings may also be relevant to other resource-limited countries with inefficient health systems. Improvements in health service delivery, human resources for health, health system financing, infrastructure, and leadership and governance are recommended to strengthen access to HPV vaccines and eliminate the health problems caused by HPV.
Resonance frequency (RF) is characterized as the specific frequency at which a system, equipped with delayed self-correction or negative feedback mechanisms, exhibits maximal amplitude oscillations in response to an external stimulus of a particular frequency. Emerging evidence suggests that the cardiovascular system has an inherent RF, and that breathing at this frequency can markedly enhance health and cardiovascular function. However, the efficacy of resonance frequency breathing (RFB) and the specific responses of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and central nervous systems during RFB remain unclear. In this study, we recruited 27 healthy young male subjects (aged 20–30 years) and used the corrected sliding method to accurately determine each subject’s RF. We then investigated cardiovascular activity, cardiorespiratory coupling, and the brain-cardiovascular network to clarify the effects and mechanisms associated with RFB. Our results indicate that: (a) the corrected sliding method can precisely evaluate RF; (b) the reduction in blood pressure is unique to RFB and not observed in other slow-paced breathing patterns (RF + 1 and 6 breaths per minute), which we attribute to the α-wave and parasympathetic-BRS pathway; (c) during slow-paced breathing, cardiorespiratory coupling predominantly favors the respiration-to-heart direction, with the RF stage eliciting the most significant response, while brain-cardiopulmonary information transfer increases across all tasks. These findings offer valuable insights into the impact of RFB on the cardiovascular, respiratory, and central nervous systems, potentially laying the groundwork for future research to optimize respiratory training protocols and improve health outcomes.
ObjectivesNumerous studies have focused on the ways to cultivate self-compassion (SC). Most of the SC interventions were typically lengthy and did not capture momentary fluctuations in SC after each exercise in the intervention. Therefore, we explored the impact of repeated self-compassionate writing as an ecological momentary intervention (EMI).MethodSeventy-five participants completed a 3-week study with signals sent twice daily, resulting in 1,980 observations collected. During the 1-week control period, participants were asked to report their experiences of negative events, momentary SC, and momentary stress. In the subsequent 1-week intervention period, they engaged in SC writing whenever they experienced negative events. Trait SC and weekly stress were also evaluated before and after the intervention, including a 1-week follow-up period.ResultsMultilevel modeling showed a slight significant increase in momentary SC and a reduction in momentary stress. However, the slope did not differ significantly between the intervention and control periods. Moreover, there were no significant changes in trait SC nor in weekly stress, although the weekly stress levels showed a decreasing trend with a small effect size from pre to post intervention.ConclusionsThis study provided preliminary evidence of the feasibility and utility of EMI in cultivating SC using repeated self-compassionate writing. Although the effect sizes were small, the study highlighted possible approaches to increase the effectiveness of the intervention.PreregistrationThis study is not preregistered.
Hispanic women in the United States have been identified as an ethnic group experiencing disproportionately higher mortality rates of breast cancer. These higher rates have been linked to contextual factors that delay breast cancer screening utilization. The COVID-19 pandemic posed a significant disruption to obtaining breast cancer screening affecting utilization of these services especially among minorities. Our cross-sectional study utilized the socio-ecological model (SEM) as a framework to identify barriers influencing delayed utilization using a comprehensive self-administered survey, which was completed among 155 Hispanic and 147 non-Hispanic White women, aged 50 and older, and who resided in the state of New Jersey during the COVID-19 pandemic. Cancer screening attitudes and the extent in which numerous barriers affected utilization of breast cancer screening services during the pandemic were assessed using logistic regression and factor analysis. The analysis confirmed barriers that included low socio-economic status, lack of health insurance, low education attainment, unemployment, limited access to health care services, cancer fatalism, fear of acquiring COVID-19, and linguistic barriers. The findings of this study validate the recommendation of using multi-pronged interventions based on the SEM framework to address both individual and systemic barriers to screening. Breast cancer screening education, resources to access health services and health insurance options may be applied to these vulnerable populations to reduce barriers and facilitate yearly breast cancer screening.
The current cross-sectional study aims to examine whether spiritual wellbeing mediates between childhood psychological maltreatment and stress-related growth in emerging adults. We also aim to investigate the moderating role of responsibility on the mediating effect of spiritual wellbeing between childhood maltreatment and stress-related growth. The sample of the study consisted of 501 undergraduate emerging adults from different public universities in Türkiye, with 66.5% of whom were female and aged between 18 and 25 years. Results showed that childhood psychological maltreatment had significant associations with responsibility, spiritual wellbeing, and growth. Additionally, spiritual wellbeing acted as a mediator between childhood maltreatment and stress-related growth in emerging adults. Further, the results indicated that responsibility moderated the mediating effect of spiritual wellbeing on the link between psychological maltreatment and stress-related growth. The study results underscore the mediating role of the spiritual wellbeing in the association between childhood maltreatment and stress-related growth and the protective role of a sense of responsibility in this mediating model. Overall, the findings highlight the importance of spiritual wellbeing and responsibility in promoting positive outcomes in emerging adults, particularly in the face of adverse childhood experiences.
Much of the current autism and gender literature has been based within a medical deficiency model; where both are seen as deficiencies rather than differences. However, there is currently minimal knowledge about the experiences of being an autistic adolescent who is both assigned female at birth and has gender dysphoria (GD), whilst even less is known about their experiences of social identity, self-concept and resilience. This study aims to explore experiences of GD with a particular focus on identity and resilience to promote parent and healthcare staff understanding; particularly around gender-affirming care, to foster positive mental health outcomes. Five assigned female at birth autistic adolescents, who identify as trans men/boys, took part in one-to-one semi-structured interviews, which were analysed using an Interpretative Phenomenological Approach. Five subordinate themes arose;“Having both autism and GD”,“Finding where I belong”,“Being more than labels”,“Trying to cope”and“Making support successful”. Our findings build on current literature and theory regarding the experience of concurrent autism and GD; highlighting its legitimacy, the ways in which autism impacts upon GD and how healthcare approaches and policy can increase accessibility and suitability of gender-affirming care.
IntroductionIntimate partner violence (IPV) is a widespread social and health problem disproportionately burdening women and, we are learning, gender and sexual minority (GSM) people, who are under-represented in research. The measurement and reporting of gender and sexual orientation in health and social science research are also inadequate.MethodsWe conducted a focused mapping review and synthesis to examine the inclusion of GSM people, and the reporting of gender identity and sexual orientation, in Canadian IPV research. Using database searches, hand-searches (November 2022), and citation chaining (April/May 2023), we identified eligible articles that (1) were published in English or French in peer-reviewed journals from 2020 to 2022, (2) reported research involving at least some Canadian IPV survivors and/or perpetrators, and (3) had at least one Canada-affiliated author.ResultsThe 150 included articles contribute significantly to the IPV literature but have shortcomings. Most articles inadequately reported gender identity and sexual orientation; among articles reporting, most only included cisgender heterosexual participants. Some articles conflated sex and gender, used outdated terminology, or used language that invisibilized GSM people.ConclusionsWhile research focused on heterosexual women (and men) is needed, exclusionary research practices can further marginalize GSM people.Policy ImplicationsGiven such research practices can impede the development of equity-oriented policies for these groups, we provide recommendations for researchers to improve inclusion and reporting. Gatekeepers such as ethics review board members and funders should strive to uphold these standards, including developing their own research and reporting policies.
BackgroundThe influence of eye contact on memory has been a topic of extensive study, yet its effects remain ambiguous. This inconsistency may be attributed to the varying levels of task difficulty encountered when conducting this type of research.MethodsTo explore this possibility, our study used a word memory task that also integrated eye gaze as a means of examining how task difficulty (easy or difficult) modulates the effect of eye contact on word memory. A total of 41 participants engaged in the memory task under varying eye contact conditions.ResultsOur findings revealed a significant interaction between task difficulty and eye contact: For easy tasks, memory accuracy was lower with eye contact, whereas for difficult tasks, accuracy was improved with eye contact. Intriguingly, this effect was predominantly observed in female participants. In easy tasks, eye contact appeared to hinder memory performance in females, whereas it enhanced performance in difficult tasks.ConclusionsThese results suggest that the impact of eye contact on memory is not uniformly positive or negative, but is instead contingent on task complexity and influenced by gender differences. This study contributes new insights into the fluctuating effects of eye contact on memory, thereby enriching our understanding of the relationship between nonverbal social cues and cognitive processes.
This study aims to shed light on the influence of insecure attachment representations on the presence of emerging borderline personality features (EBPF) in school-age children, and the role of these features in manifestations of behavioral dysregulation. The sample is composed of 116 children aged 7 to 12 (Mage= 9.11;SD= 1.68; 47 girls) drawn from three groups: children under youth protective care (n= 35), consulting psychologists or child psychiatrists (n= 42), and the general population (n= 39). The EBPF were evaluated using the Borderline Personality Features Scale for Children. Attachment representations were assessed using the Child Attachment Interview. The Child Behavior Checklist for youth was used to verify the presence of behavioral dysregulation. Analyses of variance indicate that the three groups differ in the insecurity of attachment representations and the extent of behavioral dysregulation, with children under youth protective care showing the highest levels and children in the general population showing the lowest. Children under youth protective care have a higher EBPF score than the general population. Regression analyses confirmed that more insecure attachment representations predict an increase in EBPF, while the latter influence the increase in behavioral dysregulation. A partial mediating effect of EBPF was found in the relationship between attachment representations and behavioral dysregulation. To our knowledge, this is the first study to identify a mediation trajectory between attachment representations, EBPF, and behavioral dysregulation in a sample of school-age children. These results are discussed with regard to their implications for borderline-to-be functioning.
Parental bonding is defined as the affectionate tie a parent feels towards their infant. These feelings generally arise prenatally and increase in intensity over the course of pregnancy, both in mothers and in fathers. Bonding is fundamental for positive parenting behaviors and optimal child development. Few quantitative studies systematically examined what factors contribute to optimal bonding in fathers during pregnancy. The aim of the present study was to examine whether a variety of risk factors (symptoms of depression and anxiety, stress, and repetitive negative thinking) and resilience factors (self-compassion and trait mindfulness facets) were associated with prenatal paternal bonding and to explore potential mechanisms. In total, 66 expectant fathers with an average age of 33.7 years completed online questionnaires during the second or third trimester of pregnancy to assess the variables of interest. Analyses demonstrated that more symptoms of depression and anxiety and elevated levels of stress were associated with poorer bonding. In addition, less repetitive negative thinking, and more self-compassion and non-judging of inner experience were indirectly related to higher levels of paternal bonding through lower levels of stress. Findings suggest that expectant fathers who suffer from psychological distress, have more repetitive, negative, or intrusive thoughts, and tend to be more judgmental and self-critical may be at risk for suboptimal prenatal bonding. Providing adequate support for fathers at risk, perhaps in the form of mindfulness-based interventions, may be essential in order to cope with the challenges of new fatherhood and facilitate the process of bonding with the unborn child.
Having a detailed description of the psycholinguistic properties of a language is essential for conducting well-controlled language experiments. However, there is a paucity of databases for some languages and regional varieties, including Québec French. The SyllabO+ corpus was created to provide a complete phonological and syllabic analysis of a corpus of spoken Québec French. In the present study, the corpus was expanded with 41 additional speakers, bringing the total to 225. The analysis was also expanded to include three new databases: unique words, lemmas, and morphemes (inflectional, derivational, and compounds). Next, the internal structure of unique words was analyzed to identify roots, inflectional markers, and affixes, as well as the components of compounds. Additionally, a group of 441 speakers of Québec French provided semantic transparency ratings for 3764 derived words. Results from the semantic transparency judgment study show broad inter-individual variability for words of medium transparency. No influence of sociodemographic variables was found. Transparency ratings are coherent with studies showing the greater transparency of suffixed words compared to prefixed words. Results for participants who speak French as a second language support the association between second-language proficiency and morphological processing.
People with social anxiety disorder tend to interpret ambiguous social information in a negative rather than positive manner. Such interpretation biases may cause and maintain anxiety symptoms. However, there is considerable variability in the observed effects across studies, with some not finding a relationship between interpretation biases and social anxiety. Poor psychometric properties of interpretation bias measures may explain such inconsistent findings. We evaluated the internal consistency, test–retest reliability, convergent validity, and concurrent validity of four interpretation bias measures, ranging from more implicit and automatic to more explicit and reflective: the probe scenario task, the recognition task, the scrambled sentences task, and the interpretation and judgmental bias questionnaire. Young adults (N= 94) completed interpretation bias measures in two sessions separated by one week. Psychometric properties were poor for the probe scenario and not acceptable for the recognition task. The reliability of the scrambled sentences task and the interpretation and judgmental bias questionnaire was good, and they correlated highly with social anxiety and each other, supporting their concurrent and convergent validity. However, there are methodological challenges that should be considered when measuring interpretation biases, even if psychometric indices suggest high measurement validity. We also discuss likely reasons for poor psychometric properties of some tasks and suggest potential solutions to improve the assessment of implicit and automatic biases in social anxiety in future research.
In recent years, the application of machine learning (ML) techniques in research on the prediction of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has increased. However, concerns regarding the clinical relevance and generalizability of ML findings hamper their implementation by clinicians and researchers. Here in this systematic review we examined (1) the extent to which pre-, peri- and post-traumatic risk factors identified using ML approaches coincide with the theoretical understanding of the disorder; (2) whether new insights were gained through ML techniques; and (3) whether ML findings, combined with previous research, enable an integrative model of PTSD risk encompassing both predictor categories and their theoretical relevance. We reviewed ML studies on PTSD risk factors in PubMed, Web of Science and Scopus. Studies were included if they specified when predictors and PTSD symptoms were collected in temporal relation to the traumatic event. A total of 30 studies with 12,908 participants (mean age 36.5 years) were included. After extracting the 15 most important predictors from all studies, we categorized them into pre-, peri- and post-trauma exposure predictors and examined their associations with established theoretical models of PTSD. Many studies exhibited a risk of bias, assessed using the prediction model risk of bias assessment tool (PROBAST). However, we found overlaps in identified predictors across studies, a concordance between data-driven results and theory-driven research, and underexplored predictors identified through ML. We propose an integrative model of PTSD risk that incorporates both data-driven and theory-driven findings and discuss future directions. We emphasize the importance of standards on how to apply and report ML approaches for mental health.
Process-based consent conceives of sexual consent as a process whereby individuals are continuously considering and have concern for their sexual partner’s willingness to continue engaging in sexual behavior without coercion. The current study used cross-sectional survey data and hierarchical linear regression to examine the independent and interactive effects of sex-related alcohol use attitudes, hostility toward women, and peer support for abuse on college men’s process-based consent (N= 463;Mage = 19; 93% heterosexual; 64% White, non-Hispanic). Findings revealed significant main effects of all three primary study variables on process-based consent beliefs and behaviors while controlling for fraternity membership, relationship status, and sexual history. A significant three-way interaction indicated that permissive sex-related alcohol use attitudes may inhibit process-based consent among college men with higher levels of hostility toward women who also believe their peers hold rape-supportive attitudes. These findings indicate that education around consent is necessary but may not be sufficient for preventing sexual violence. Interventions developed with and delivered by peer leaders that challenge harmful peer group norms about sex-related alcohol use and the mistreatment of women may create a social environment with more favorable conditions for changing individual college men’s beliefs and behaviors.
Premature reproductive aging is linked to heightened stress sensitivity and psychological maladjustment across the life course. However, the brain dynamics underlying this relationship are poorly understood. Here, to address this issue, we analyzed multimodal data from female participants in the Adolescent Brain and Cognitive Development (longitudinal,N= 441; aged 9–12 years) and Human Connectome-Aging (cross-sectional,N= 130; aged 36–60 years) studies. Age-specific intrinsic functional brain network dynamics mediated the link between reproductive aging and perceptions of greater interpersonal adversity. The adolescent profile overlapped areas of greater glutamatergic and dopaminergic receptor density, and the middle-aged profile was concentrated in visual, attentional and default mode networks. The two profiles showed opposite relationships with patterns of functional neural network variability and cortical atrophy observed in psychosis versus major depressive disorder. Our findings underscore the divergent patterns of brain aging linked to reproductive maturation versus senescence, which may explain developmentally specific vulnerabilities to distinct disorders.
Previous research has consistently demonstrated that emotional abuse is a robust predictor of adolescent suicidal ideation. However, few studies have explored the bidirectional relation between changes in emotional abuse and suicidal ideation at the within-person level, as well as the underlying mediating mechanisms. This longitudinal study examined the reciprocal relations between emotional abuse and suicidal ideation, along with the potential mediating role of self-disgust, by disentangling between- and within-person effects. A total of 4731 students (44.9% girls; Mage = 10.91 years, SD = 0.72) participated in a four-wave longitudinal study with 6-month intervals. Results from random intercept cross-lagged panel modeling indicated significant positive associations between emotional abuse, self-disgust, and suicidal ideation at the between-person level. At the within-person level, findings revealed that emotional abuse directly predicted suicidal ideation, and suicidal ideation also directly predicted emotional abuse. Emotional abuse also indirectly predicted suicidal ideation via self-disgust, while suicidal ideation indirectly predicted emotional abuse through self-disgust. These findings emphasize self-disgust as a central psychological mechanism in the bidirectional relations between emotional abuse and suicidal ideation. Targeted interventions reducing self-disgust and fostering a healthier self-concept could be crucial in breaking this harmful cycle, ultimately protecting adolescents from escalating emotional abuse and suicidal thoughts.
The fact that mental health has a major impact on individuals’ lives increases the importance of evaluating mental well-being. This longitudinal study investigated interaction between emotional reactivity, intolerance of uncertainty, and mental well-being among Turkish adults. Drawing on a sample of 199 participants, the research utilized measures to assess emotional responses, intolerance of uncertainty, and mental well-being. The findings indicated that emotional reactivity has a significant positive effect on intolerance of uncertainty, suggesting that heightened emotional reactivity is associated with an increase in intolerance of uncertainty. Moreover, intolerance of uncertainty demonstrated a significant negative impact on mental well-being, highlighting its role as a predictor of mental health outcomes. Importantly, intolerance of uncertainty fully mediated in the relationship between emotional reactivity and mental well-being. The study contributed to the literature by employing a longitudinal design, shedding light on the dynamic interactions between emotional processes, intolerance of uncertainty, and mental well-being. The findings emphasized the importance of considering intolerance of uncertainty as a key factor in understanding mental health outcomes and suggested avenues for future research to explore these relationships further.
The Multicultural Ideology Scale has been revised (MCI-r) and its psychometric properties are tested across different socio-political contexts. The MCI-r is comprised of six domains: Cultural Maintenance, Equity/Inclusion, Social Interaction, Essentialistic Boundaries, Extent of Differences, and Consequences of Diversity. This study is a part of a larger international research project, examining the validity of the MCI-r in Canada. The results of our study supported a six-factor model for the MCI-r. However, we suggest removing Essentialistic Boundaries and Extent of Differences as they do not align with multicultural ideology and affect the interpretation and application of the model. Further analyses confirmed discriminant validity for the majority of the subscales; however, ideal convergent validity was not reached for all the subscales but one (Equity/Inclusion). Sufficient reliability was established for all the subscales. The examination of the association of the six components of the MCI-r with tolerance, intergroup contact, attitudes toward different ethnocultural groups, and intercultural ideology revealed that the four subscales of Cultural Maintenance, Equity/Inclusion, Social Interaction, and Consequences of Diversity were positively related to these variables. However, the association of Essentialistic Boundaries and Extent of Differences with tolerance was negative. We further found a negative relationship between the Essentialistic Boundaries dimension and interculturalism ideology. These results further support the argument that Essentialistic Boundaries and Extent of Differences may promote fixed, essentialist views of cultural groups that contrast with the flexible, inclusive nature inherent to the principles of multiculturalism.
Educators play a pivotal role in shaping the minds of future generations, fostering their growth and development into valuable societal assets. This study investigated the relationships between progressive personality, self-transcendence, and eudaimonic well-being in qualified teachers, with meaning in life as a potential mediator. Employing a descriptive-correlational design, the study targeted all qualified teachers within Ahvaz, Iran, during the year 2023. A stepwise cluster sampling technique was utilized to select a representative sample of 264 teachers. Data collection instruments included questionnaires measuring progressive personality, self-transcendence, eudaimonic well-being, and meaning in life. Statistical analysis relied on descriptive statistics, Pearson’s correlation coefficient, and structural equation modeling (SEM). The analysis revealed significant positive correlations (p< 0.01) among the variables. Specifically, eudaimonic well-being was positively related to both progressive personality and meaning in life. Self-transcendence was also positively associated with meaning in life, which, in turn, was positively related to progressive personality. Bootstrapping analysis confirmed that meaning in life significantly mediated the relationships between both self-transcendence and progressive personality, and eudaimonic well-being and progressive personality (p< 0.01). These findings supported the proposed model’s fit to the data.
The effects of serial order of presentation on parent ratings of items referring to the behavior of their children were examined using two scales measuring dispositions and psychopathology that were administered to a representative sample of 1,358 4–17 year olds. Items within each scale were pseudo-randomized instead of being grouped according to the constructs they were written to measure. Each scale was presented in either forward or reverse serial order, with parents who were unaware of all hypotheses being randomly selected for forward or reverse order of administration. In both the disposition and psychopathology scales, the same items were rated significantly differently depending on the order of presentation to the raters; ratings declined in magnitude as the parents rated increasing numbers of items. Although parent ratings presumably partly reflect the behavior of their children, they are biased by robust order effects. The unbiased counter-balancing of items in scale construction and the use of randomized forward versus reverse orders of scale administrations can be used to minimize extraneous order effects.
BackgroundPsychological safety is crucial for student-athletes, impacting their stress levels and academic anxiety. Understanding how interpersonal factors like intimacy and social adjustment impact psychological safety can guide interventions to enhance student-athlete well-being.ObjectivesThis study investigates the relationships between intimacy, social adjustment, psychological safety, perceived stress, and learning-related anxiety among student-athletes. It tests explicitly whether psychological safety mediates the effects of intimacy and social adjustment on perceived stress and learning-related anxiety.MethodologyA cross-sectional design was employed, involving 300 student-athletes from various universities in Wuhan, China. Participants completed measures of intimacy (RCI), social adjustment (SAS-SR), perceived stress (PSS), learning-related anxiety (LAS), and psychological safety (PSS). Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) was used to analyze direct and indirect relationships among the variables.Results/DiscussionThe results revealed that intimacy and social adjustment positively impact psychological safety. In turn, psychological safety negatively affects perceived stress and learning-related anxiety. The mediation analysis showed that psychological safety significantly mediates the relationships between both intimacy and social adjustment with perceived stress and learning-related anxiety. Specifically, the study found that higher intimacy and social adjustment levels increased psychological safety, subsequently reducing perceived stress and anxiety levels. These findings underscore the importance of fostering a psychologically safe environment to mitigate stress and anxiety among student-athletes. The study’s implications suggest that coaches and educators should build supportive relationships and enhance social integration to improve psychological safety and overall athlete well-being.ConclusionThis study highlights the critical role of psychological safety in student athletes’ mental health. By promoting intimacy and social adjustment, institutions can enhance psychological safety, reduce stress and anxiety, and improve athletes’ academic and personal experiences. Future research should explore longitudinal effects and potential moderators to understand these relationships further.
Teachers are dealing with the challenges of educating students who have been exposed to Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) at an increasing rate (Brunzell et al., 2021; Mayor, 2021). Often their education has not prepared them for recognizing and mitigating the behaviors associated with ACE exposures. This article offers a review of current research regarding the role of the school counselor in supporting teachers. A case study provides insight into this support through a university partnership with a trauma-focused charter school. Suggestions are offered for teacher training and policy changes based on the author's experiences in working with a trauma-focused school. Specifically, there are many areas where school counselors can provide advocacy and support through efforts within their role in the areas of defining, managing, delivering, and assessing ASCA (2024). Partnering with a university can provide needed services for schools while simultaneously offering learning opportunities for students.
Perceiving organizational support is a crucial factor in enhancing teacher job satisfaction and contributes to improving teacher job performance. Previous research has predominantly focused on the impact of job satisfaction on job performance, overlooking the interactions among factors shaping perceived organizational support. This study aims to examine the interrelationships among personality traits, perceived organizational support, self-efficacy, and job satisfaction in influencing teacher job performance. A total of 581 university teachers participated in an empirical study, and the results confirmed that perceived organizational support influences teacher job performance directly and indirectly through personality traits, self-efficacy, and job satisfaction. This study develops and validates a novel model illustrating how perceived organizational support indirectly influences teachers’job performance through personality traits, self-efficacy, and job satisfaction. By emphasizing the mediating roles of personality traits, self-efficacy, and job satisfaction, this study makes a significant contribution to the theoretical literature. Moreover, it provides valuable theoretical insights and practical guidance for universities to formulate support strategies tailored to teachers’ personality traits, thereby enhancing their job performance.
BackgroundMilitary personnel face an increased risk of developing mental disorders owing to the stressful environments they encounter. Effective stress management strategies are crucial to mitigate this risk. Mindfulness training (MT) is promising as a stress management approach in such demanding settings. This study uses a quantitative approach to investigate the impact of MT on the relationship between the autonomic nervous system (ANS) and emotional regulation.MethodsThe study evaluated the effectiveness of MT in reducing stress among 86 military personnel. Participants were divided into two groups: MT (n= 42) and non-MT (n= 38). The study compared the two groups using measures of heart rate variability (HRV), a reliable indicator of ANS activity.ResultsThe MT group exhibited a significant increase in HRV (14.4%,p= 0.001) and alpha asymmetry (AA) in the frontal lobe (45.7%,p< 0.001) compared to the non-MT group. Notably, the MT group achieved significantly higher scores on the parachute landing fall (PLF) training performance (p< 0.001). These improvements in HRV, AA, and PLF performance were strongly correlated. Furthermore, AA fully mediated the relationship between HRV and PLF training performance.ConclusionsThe findings suggest that MT has a positive impact on stress resilience, potentially by mitigating anxiety and attention deficits induced by extreme stressors. These positive effects are facilitated by concurrent modulation of the frontal cortex and autonomic nervous system. Our findings provide insight into the neural mechanisms behind MT-induced stress reduction from the perspective of neuromodulation.
In cognitive psychology, research on attention is shifting from focusing primarily on how people orient toward stimuli in the environment toward instead examining how people orient internally toward memory representations. With this new shift the question arises: What factors in the environment send attention inward? A recent proposal is that one factor is cue familiarity-detection (Cleary, Irving & Mills,Cognitive Science, 47, e13274, 2023). Within this theoretical framework, we reinterpret a decades-old empirical pattern—a primacy effect in memory for repetitions—in a novel way. The effect is the finding that altered repetitions of an image were remembered as re-occurrences of the first presentation despite having a changed left–right orientation; participants better retained the first orientation while incorrectly remembering changed instantiations as repetitions of the first orientation (DiGirolamo & Hintzman,Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 4, 121–124, 1997). We argue that this pattern, which has never been fully explained, is an existing empirical test of the newly proposed mechanism of cue familiarity-detection flipping attention inward toward memory. Specifically, an image’s first appearance is novel so draws attention outward toward encoding the stimulus’ attributes like orientation; subsequent mirror-reversed appearances are detected as familiar so flip attention inward toward memory search, which leads to 1) inattentional blindness for the changed orientation due to the familiarity-driven shift of attention inward and 2) memory retrieval of the first instance and its orientation, thereby enhancing memory for the first instance and its previously encoded attributes like orientation.
Culture can shape memory, but little research has investigated age effects. The present study examined the neural correlates of memory retrieval for old, new, and similar lures in younger and older Americans and Taiwanese. A total of 207 participants encoded pictures of objects and, during fMRI scanning, completed a surprise object recognition task testing discrimination of similar and new from old items. Results show that age and culture impact discrimination of old from new items. Taiwanese performed worse than Americans, with age effects more pronounced for Taiwanese. The cultural differences in the engagement of left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) in younger adults (i.e., greater activity for old [for Taiwanese] or new items [for Americans]) were eliminated with age. The results are interpreted as reflecting cultural differences in orientation to novelty versus familiarity for younger, but not older, adults, with the LIFG supporting interference resolution at retrieval. Support is not as strong for cultural differences in pattern separation processes. Although Americans had higher levels of memory discrimination than Taiwanese, neither cultural nor age differences were found in hippocampal activity, which is surprising given the region’s role in pattern separation. The findings suggest ways in which cultural life experiences and concomitant information processing strategies can contribute to consistent effects of age across cultures or contribute to different trajectories with age in terms of memory.
BackgroundSelf-control is essential for individual health and well-being. The relationship between mindfulness and self-control has recently become a central focus of research. However, the dynamics of this relationship in deaf and hearing individuals remain underexplored. This study, based on the Cognitive Behavioral Theory, developed a moderated mediation model to examine the mediating role of inner peace and the moderating role of group type in the mindfulness-self-control relationship.MethodsUsing a cross-sectional survey design, this study used a sample of 121 deaf and 142 hearing college students. A moderated mediation analysis was conducted based on participants’ responses to the Mindfulness Attention Awareness Scale, Peace of Mind Scale, and Belief Self-Control Scale.ResultsThe findings indicate a significant positive correlation between mindfulness and self-control across both groups. Inner peace partially mediates the mindfulness-self-control relationship for both groups. However, group type moderates the mindfulness-inner peace-self-control pathway. Specifically, in hearing individuals, mindfulness bolsters self-control by enhancing inner peace, whereas in deaf individuals, this mediation effect is weaker, with their self-control not correlating with increased inner peace.ConclusionThe results reveal that, despite shared psychological mechanisms in mindfulness and self-control between deaf and hearing individuals, the beneficial impact of inner peace on self-control is significantly lower in deaf individuals. This highlights the complex relationship shaped by diverse life experiences, underscoring the need for tailored interventions like mindfulness training to enhance positive emotions and self-control in deaf individuals.
Witnessing rejection against one’s group can have similar impacts on psychological distress and aggression as experiencing rejection personally. In this study, we investigated the neural activity patterns of group rejection and whether they resemble those of personal-level rejection. We first identified the neural correlates of social rejection (exclusion based on negative attention) compared with ostracism (exclusion based on lack of social connection) and then compared group-level to personal-level rejection. We employed a novel social exclusion task, “RateME,” to induce group and personal rejection and Cyberball to evoke ostracism during fMRI scans. Our results showed that personal rejection increased activity in regions associated with autobiographical memory and self-identity, such as the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and the lingual gyrus, whereas ostracism engaged areas related to social pain and salience, including the anterior cingulate cortex and the insula. Additionally, group and personal-level rejection elicited similar neural activity patterns, regardless of participants’ fusion with the rejected groups. Therefore, group membership seems sufficient for group rejection to trigger self-referential processing pathways similar to those activated by personal rejection. Our findings highlight the overlapping neural mechanisms underlying personal and group-level grievances, which may explain the detrimental effects of group rejection on aggression, extremism, and intergroup conflict.
A variety of different evidence-accumulation models (EAMs) account for common response time and accuracy patterns in two-alternative forced choice tasks by assuming that subjects collect and sum information from their environment until a response threshold is reached. Estimates of model parameters mapped to components of this decision process can be used to explain the causes of observed behavior. However, such explanations are only meaningful when parameters can be identified, that is, when their values can be uniquely estimated from data generated by the model. Prior studies suggest that parameter identifiability is poor when error rates are low but have not systematically compared this issue across different EAMs. We conducted a simulation study investigating the identifiability and estimation properties of model parameters at low error rates in the two most popular EAMs: The diffusion decision model (DDM) and the linear ballistic accumulator (LBA). We found poor identifiability at low error rates for both models but less so for the DDM and for a larger number of trials. The DDM also showed better identifiability than the LBA at low trial numbers for a design with a manipulation of response caution. Based on our results, we recommend tasks with error rates between 15% and 35% for small, and between 5% and 35% for large trial numbers. We explain the identifiability problem in terms of trade-offs caused by correlations between decision-threshold and accumulation-rate parameters and discuss why the models differ in terms of their estimation properties.
AbstractThe present study aims to fill the research gap by evaluating published empirical studies and answering the specific research question: Can individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) predict upcoming linguistic information during real-time language comprehension? Following the PRISMA framework, an initial search via PubMed, Web of Science, SCOPUS, and Google Scholar yielded a total of 697 records. After screening the abstract and full text, 10 studies, covering 350 children and adolescents with ASD ranging from 2 to 15 years old, were included for analysis. We found that individuals with ASD may predict the upcoming linguistic information by using verb semantics but not pragmatic prosody during language comprehension. Nonetheless, 9 out of 10 studies used short spoken sentences as stimuli, which may not encompass the complexity of language comprehension. Moreover, eye-tracking in the lab setting was the primary data collection technique, which may further limit the generalizability of the research findings. Using a narrative approach to synthesize and evaluate the research findings, we found that individuals with ASD may have the ability to predict the upcoming linguistic information. However, this field of research still calls for more studies that will expand the scope of research topics, utilize more complex linguistic stimuli, and employ more diverse data collection techniques.
This study aimed to evaluate the psychometric properties of the Dietarian Identity Questionnaire (DIQ), an instrument based on the Unified Model of Vegetarian Identity (UMVI), within a Brazilian context of adult vegetarians, dietary vegans and omnivores. Vegetarianism encompasses various dietary patterns that range from avoiding and reducing to excluding animal-derived foods, as is the case with dietary vegans. The UMVI conceptualizes vegetarianism and related dietary patterns as dietarian identities. Dietarian identity represents a novel framework within the Brazilian context, underscoring the significance of the present study. After transcultural adaptation, a Brazilian sample was recruited in two stages (n= 1181 andn= 226), comprising omnivores, vegetarians, and dietary vegans, aged 18 to 60 years. Data was collected via the RedCap platform, with participants being reached through vegetarian/dietary vegan groups in social media and direct outreach to various vegetarian associations. Psychometric evaluation included confirmatory factor analysis, assessment of convergent validity, and test-retest reliability. Additionally, multiple ANOVAs were conducted to explore differences among omnivores, vegetarians, and dietary vegans in the Brazilian population. The confirmatory factor analysis confirmed the instrument's internal structure and validity, with test-retest reliability and convergent validity further supporting its psychometric properties. Brazilian omnivores exhibited higher levels of Centrality, Personal Regard, Strictness, and Prosocial and Moral Motivations compared to data from other cultural contexts, such as Europeans and North Americans. These findings highlight unique aspects of Brazilian dietarian identity, challenging existing literature and emphasizing the need for further exploration of cultural influences on dietarian identity, including regional and cross-cultural perspectives.
Social media users’ excessive preservation and collection of digital information result in digital hoarding. Understanding the internal motivations of users’ digital hoarding behavior is made possible by studying the factors that influence this behavior through the lens of perceived value. This study built a model to predict social media users’ digital hoarding, incorporating perceived ability, perceived usefulness, perceived richness, and perceived economy as antecedent variables and security as a mediating variable. An online survey conducted in China (n= 834) using SPSS and R Studio revealed that perceived ability, perceived richness, and perceived economy promote digital hoarding behavior, both directly and indirectly via the mediation of security. These findings provide support for the proposed role of security as an underlying mechanism that explains digital hoarding behavior. The study holds significant implications for the crafting of strategies to facilitate healthier digital storage habits.
This study aimed to evaluate the psychometric properties of the Dietarian Identity Questionnaire (DIQ), an instrument based on the Unified Model of Vegetarian Identity (UMVI), within a Brazilian context of adult vegetarians, dietary vegans and omnivores. Vegetarianism encompasses various dietary patterns that range from avoiding and reducing to excluding animal-derived foods, as is the case with dietary vegans. The UMVI conceptualizes vegetarianism and related dietary patterns as dietarian identities. Dietarian identity represents a novel framework within the Brazilian context, underscoring the significance of the present study. After transcultural adaptation, a Brazilian sample was recruited in two stages (n= 1181 andn= 226), comprising omnivores, vegetarians, and dietary vegans, aged 18 to 60 years. Data was collected via the RedCap platform, with participants being reached through vegetarian/dietary vegan groups in social media and direct outreach to various vegetarian associations. Psychometric evaluation included confirmatory factor analysis, assessment of convergent validity, and test-retest reliability. Additionally, multiple ANOVAs were conducted to explore differences among omnivores, vegetarians, and dietary vegans in the Brazilian population. The confirmatory factor analysis confirmed the instrument's internal structure and validity, with test-retest reliability and convergent validity further supporting its psychometric properties. Brazilian omnivores exhibited higher levels of Centrality, Personal Regard, Strictness, and Prosocial and Moral Motivations compared to data from other cultural contexts, such as Europeans and North Americans. These findings highlight unique aspects of Brazilian dietarian identity, challenging existing literature and emphasizing the need for further exploration of cultural influences on dietarian identity, including regional and cross-cultural perspectives.
Social media users’ excessive preservation and collection of digital information result in digital hoarding. Understanding the internal motivations of users’ digital hoarding behavior is made possible by studying the factors that influence this behavior through the lens of perceived value. This study built a model to predict social media users’ digital hoarding, incorporating perceived ability, perceived usefulness, perceived richness, and perceived economy as antecedent variables and security as a mediating variable. An online survey conducted in China (n= 834) using SPSS and R Studio revealed that perceived ability, perceived richness, and perceived economy promote digital hoarding behavior, both directly and indirectly via the mediation of security. These findings provide support for the proposed role of security as an underlying mechanism that explains digital hoarding behavior. The study holds significant implications for the crafting of strategies to facilitate healthier digital storage habits.
AbstractThe present study aims to fill the research gap by evaluating published empirical studies and answering the specific research question: Can individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) predict upcoming linguistic information during real-time language comprehension? Following the PRISMA framework, an initial search via PubMed, Web of Science, SCOPUS, and Google Scholar yielded a total of 697 records. After screening the abstract and full text, 10 studies, covering 350 children and adolescents with ASD ranging from 2 to 15 years old, were included for analysis. We found that individuals with ASD may predict the upcoming linguistic information by using verb semantics but not pragmatic prosody during language comprehension. Nonetheless, 9 out of 10 studies used short spoken sentences as stimuli, which may not encompass the complexity of language comprehension. Moreover, eye-tracking in the lab setting was the primary data collection technique, which may further limit the generalizability of the research findings. Using a narrative approach to synthesize and evaluate the research findings, we found that individuals with ASD may have the ability to predict the upcoming linguistic information. However, this field of research still calls for more studies that will expand the scope of research topics, utilize more complex linguistic stimuli, and employ more diverse data collection techniques.
The current study explored the bridge symptoms between parental involvement and depression and the sex difference between this network. The participants included 772 adolescents (50.06% girl,Mage = 11.77,SD= 0.72) in China. They were recruited to complete the questionnaires regarding parental involvement and depression. Results showed that the network had eight bridge symptoms (pi6, pi12, pi17, pi20, pi21, dp8, dp12, dp16). Besides, there were significant sex differences between symptom networks. The network structure invariance test revealed significant differences in the overall network structure between the networks for boys and girls.
Guided by the theory of self-compassion and the broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions, we aimed to assess how self-compassion is related to psychological distress among Chinese college students. A convenience sample of 2,263 Chinese college students from four universities participated in this cross-sectional study. They completed measures assessing (un)compassionate self-responding, positive emotions, negative emotions, resilience resources, and psychological distress through an online survey platform. We found that positive emotions and resilience resources significantly mediated the associations between (un)compassionate self-responding and psychological distress. Future studies on mental health promotion programs based on self-compassion should evaluate whether interventions for enhancing positive emotions effectively boost resilience resources and adjustment outcomes during future pandemics. For application, university counselling centers may offer self-compassion workshops or groups to college students during transitional periods.
The error-related negativity (ERN) has been called a putative neural marker of anxiety risk in children, with smaller ERN amplitudes denoting greater risk in early childhood. Children of anxious mothers are at elevated risk for anxiety problems compared to children of non-anxious mothers. Still unknown is whether discrete maternal symptoms interact with child ERN to predict different forms of child anxiety risk, knowledge of which could increase our understanding of the specificity of known conditions and pathways for transgenerational effects. Targeting two of the most prevalent forms of anxiety problems across children and adults, we tested whether maternal generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and social phobia (SP) symptoms when children were 3 years old interacted with child ERN at age 4 years to predict child symptoms of overanxiousness and separation anxiety at age 5 years. We found that greater maternal SP, but not GAD, symptoms along with smaller (i.e., less negative) child ERN predicted more separation anxiety and overanxious symptoms in children, suggesting some specificity in prediction but less specificity in outcomes regarding the transmission of anxiety risk from mothers to offspring.
Actors need to memorize lines of text to audition for roles with a limited amount of time; therefore, an evidenced-based system may help ensure adequate preparation for auditions. Precision Teaching is a subspecialty within behavior analysis focused on precise definitions and continuous measurement of dimensional features of behavior and analyzes behavioral data to accelerate behavioral repertoires by promoting fluency. One way to promote fluency is through Say All Fast Minute Each Day Shuffled (SAFMEDS), a procedure that has been shown to increase recall through practice and assessment and is a systematic tool for learning that is an improvement over standard flashcard methods. The current study compares the effects of see-say and hear-say learning channel sets on the recall of long theatrical texts for one actor and one non-actor using an adapted alternating treatments design. Results demonstrate that the hear-say learning channel set was most effective for both participants. Additionally, these skills generalized during MESAA tests for both monologues and participants in the absence of the SAFMEDS cards and in novel environments. Participants reported high satisfaction with both treatments, indicating high utility in developing fluency.
BackgroundWeight stigma is pervasive, and it has a significant impact on the social, physical, and psychological health of an individual. Weight stigma is observed from several different sources. Therefore, the present study developed and validated a new instrument, the Weight Stigma Exposure Inventory (WeSEI), to assess different sources of observed weight stigma across interpersonal and non-interpersonal sources.MethodsThe participants (n = 15,991) comprised Taiwanese young adults, Chinese adolescents, and Chinese young adults who completed paper-and-pencil and online surveys between September 2023 and December 2023. All participants provided demographic information, and completed the WeSEI, Weight Self-Stigma Questionnaire (WSSQ), and Perceived Weight Stigmatization Scale (PWSS). Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) were used to examine the factor structure of the WeSEI.ResultsEFA and CFA results confirmed a seven-factor structure (television sources, traditional media sources, social media sources, parent sources, stranger sources, significant other sources, and friends sources) across 35 items of the WeSEI. Moreover, the WeSEI was supported by measurement invariance across subgroups (i.e., subsamples, gender, and weight status). Moreover, there were positive correlations between all seven factors of the WeSEI and the WSSQ and PWSS.ConclusionThe WeSEI appears to assess observed weight stigma from different sources, and had good reliability, validity, and invariance across various subsamples. The WeSEI may be useful in clinical practice and research for assessing exposure to weight stigma from different sources.
Compulsivity has been associated with variable behavior under uncertainty. However, previous work has not distinguished between two main sources of behavioral variability: the stochastic selection of choice options that do not maximize expected reward (choice variability) and random noise in the reinforcement learning process that updates option values from choice outcomes (learning variability). Here we study the relation between dimensional compulsivity and behavioral variability using a computational model that dissociates its two sources. Across two independent datasets (137 and 123 participants), we found that compulsivity is associated with more frequent switches between options, triggered by increased choice variability, but no change in learning variability. This effect of compulsivity on the ‘trait’ component of choice variability is observed even in conditions where this source of behavioral variability yields no cognitive benefits. These findings indicate that compulsive individuals make variable and suboptimal choices under uncertainty, but do not hold degraded representations of option values.
IntroductionMusic is known to impact attentional state without conscious awareness. Listening to music encourages the brain to secrete neurotransmitters improving cognition and emotion.Aim of workAnalysis of QEEG band width while listening to two music types, identifying different cortical areas activated and which genre has a similar effect to relaxed EEG.MethodsThis is a cross-section interventional analytic study including 76 normal subjects, 55 of them are females (72.37%). Participants listened to 10 min of a single audio track during EEG recording, consisting of (1 min of silence, 3 min of Egyptian folk music, 3 min of silence, then 3 min of Egyptian instrumental classic music (without any lyrics). We analyzed QEEG bands at each brain region during different tracks. The power ratio index (PRI) was calculated for each region, and then the interhemispheric difference was compared.ResultsThe participants’ ages ranged from 15 to 26 with a mean 16.73 ± 2.37 years. PRI showed a significant increase in the frontal and occipital regions during listening to folk music compared to the silent epoch, where p < 0.001 and p = 0.023, respectively. In the frontal and temporal regions, the classic music epoch evoked the highest PRI interhemispheric difference compared to the folk music epoch, where p = 0.004 and p < 0.001, respectively.ConclusionEgyptian folk music has significantly slowed the brain rhythm, particularly in the frontal region, compared to classic music, supporting the hypothesis of a momentary reduction of cognitive capacities by the noise. Classic music was evidently associated with a relaxed state EEG.
BackgroundLimited research has been conducted on the relationship between inflammatory markers and psychological status in medical staff fighting COVID-19.ObjectiveThis article examines the psychological and inflammatory conditions of medical personnel working on the front lines of the battle against COVID-19. Methods: A total of 102 clinical staff members were included in this study. All subjects received the Symptom Checklist-90 questionnaire (SCL-90) and Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Checklist-Civilian questionnaires for assessing different mental symptoms. The levels of various inflammatory markers, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, and IFN-γ, along with GDNF, were evaluated.ResultsSpearman correlation analysis showed that the levels of IL-6 were positively associated with the anxiety score (Spearman’s rho= .230,p= .021), obsessive–compulsive symptoms (Spearman’s rho= .201,p= .042). The levels of IL-8 were negatively associated with the anxiety score (Spearman’s rho= -.223,p= .028), obsessive–compulsive symptoms (Spearman’s rho = -.252,p= .012), hyperarousal (Spearman’s rho= -.221,p= .028). The levels of TNF-α were positively associated with the anxiety score (Spearman’s rho= .201,p= .045), obsessive–compulsive symptoms (Spearman’s rho= .222,p= .035).ConclusionGenerally, our results suggested that IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α might play a role in the development of psychological symptoms among medical staff.
Teacher well-being has increasingly become a prominent research topic due to its significant impact on various teacher and student outcomes. This focus is particularly crucial for early career teachers, who often encounter numerous challenges at the beginning of their careers, leading to elevated levels of stress and burnout. Our study aimed to examine the relationship between social and emotional competencies and burnout of early career teachers and the potential mediating role of teacher self-efficacy in this relationship. A total of 657 Croatian subject teachers with up to 5 years of experience participated in the study. Structural equation modelling was implemented to test models of hypothesised relations for the overall burnout as a dependent variable and for each burnout dimension: exhaustion, mental distance, cognitive impairment, and emotional impairment. Tested models singled out self-management and social awareness as two social and emotional competencies that are, along with teacher self-efficacy, particularly predictive of burnout. Self-management predicted lower overall burnout and teacher self-efficacy partially mediated this relationship. Social awareness also predicted lower burnout in teachers, but this relationship was fully mediated by teacher self-efficacy. Early career teachers who are better at managing and motivating themselves, who are socially aware and behave more prosocially were feeling more efficacious as teachers and, subsequently, displayed fewer symptoms of burnout. At the level of burnout dimensions, the overall pattern of relations was mainly retained, indicating that self-management and social awareness are particularly predictive of the four burnout dimensions and that self-efficacy plays a mediating role, either partially or fully, in this relationship. Our findings are especially important in light of the knowledge about early years in teaching being a critical period for teacher career development. They suggest that new teachers could benefit from well-structured mentoring and induction programs designed to ease their transition into schools and foster their well-being in the initial years of teaching.
ObjectiveTo study the heterogeneity and influencing factors of self-acceptance of drug addicts in compulsory isolation in 2 drug rehabilitation centers in Sichuan Province, and to analyze the effects of different types of self-acceptance on subthreshold depression in drug addicts, in order to provide useful references for improving their mental health.MethodsSelf-acceptance Questionnaire (SAQ), Drug use Stereotype Threat Scale(DSTS) and Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale(CES-D) were used to conduct a questionnaire survey in January 2024 on 1068 drug addicts in two compulsory isolation drug rehabilitation centers in Sichuan Province.ResultsDrug addicts self-acceptance can be categorized into 5 potential categories; men were more likely than women to show lower self-acceptance in the ‘low-low’(β = 0.285,OR = 0.381, p < 0.001),‘low-high’(β = 0.331,OR = 0.383,p = 0.004), and‘high-low’(β = 0.283,OR = 0.548, p = 0.033) groups compared to the ‘ high-high’ group; drug addicts with an education level of elementary school and below were categorized into the‘low -low ’ group(β = 0.642,OR = 6.173, p = 0.005);HIV-negative drug addicts were more likely to show higher self-acceptance than positive patients(β = 0.418,OR = 2.427, p = 0.034)); the‘low-low’group had the greatest likelihood of being alienated(β = 0.169,OR = 3.249, p < 0.001). The results of multiple linear regression showed that drug addicts in the‘ moderate-moderate ’group and‘high-high ’group had significantly lower subthreshold depression than those in the‘low-low ’group; the results of the Kruskal-Wallis Test showed that the‘high -high ’group had the lowest level of subthreshold depression, and the‘low -low ’,‘low-high ’and‘high-low ’groups had the highest mean ranks in different dimensions of subthreshold depression(P < 0.001).ConclusionHeterogeneity exists in drug addicts’ self-acceptance, and gender, HIV-positive or not, education level, and drug use stereotype threat are factors influencing self-acceptance in compulsory isolated drug addicts. High self-appraisal-high self-acceptance had the lowest level of subthreshold depression in drug addicts, and the consistency of poor self-appraisal and self-acceptance also affected the level of subthreshold depression in drug addicts.
BackgroundThis research focuses on examining and comparing the aggression levels of prisoners incarcerated for intentional injury and amateur combat athletes. The study aims to explore the differences in aggression levels among these groups to understand the impact of incarceration and sports participation on aggression.MethodsThe participants included in the analysis consist of prisoners (n= 363) housed in Marmara No. 7 and No. 3 Type L Closed Penal Institutions, who have been incarcerated for intentional injury, with an average age of 36.64 ± 10.30 years and an average custody period of 980.47 ± 1335.27 days. Amateur combat athletes (n= 203) with an average age of 25.17 ± 10.09 years have been actively engaged in sports for an average of 11.83 ± 9.53 years. The control group (n= 329) has an average age of 32.65 ± 7.56 years. Data collection instruments included a personal information form and the Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire. The data were analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics 23.0, with a significance level set atp< 0.05.ResultsAnalysis of the Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire scores revealed that the aggression levels of prisoners incarcerated for intentional injury were statistically significantly lower than those of both amateur combat athletes and control group participants (p< 0.001). Additionally, a significant reduction in overall aggression scores was observed among prisoners as the number of days in custody increased (p= 0.045). No significant differences were found among amateur combat athletes concerning the discipline variable, and no meaningful relationship was identified between years of active sports participation and aggression scores.ConclusionThe findings indicate that educational, social, and sports activities organized in correctional facilities can be effective in reducing aggression levels among inmates. Systematic planning, professional implementation, and continuous evaluation of such programs can make significant contributions to the rehabilitation of prisoners and their successful reintegration into society.
Examining the quality of life outcomes and supports of autistic people, particularly without proxies, is important to inform research and service delivery – not only for it to be more evidenced-based, but also to ensure services and supports are successfully supporting autistic people in ways that are important to them. The aim of this exploratory study was to examine the quality of life personal outcomes of autistic people; our secondary aim was to examine the presence of person-centered organizational supports to facilitate autistic people’s outcomes. We analyzed secondary Personal Outcome Measures interview data from 860 autistic adults (January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2023), many of which also had additional intellectual/developmental disabilities. Autistic people had 50.4% of outcomes present; they were most likely to be safe and have the best possible health, and least likely to choose where and with whom to live, and choose their services. Autistic people had 52.1% of individualized supports in place. While there were differences in autistic people’s outcomes and supports based on their sociodemographics, the presence of supports played a larger role in quality of life. While much work remains, our findings indicate that with thoughtful, person-centered services and supports, autistic people’s outcomes improve tremendously.
The impact of the boarding school milieu on the psychological development of children has garnered considerable attention. Scholars have especially expressed apprehension regarding the potential adverse effects of boarding on familial bonds. Addressing this concern, certain primary schools in Yunnan Province have implemented a Kinship boarding system, wherein older students are entrusted with the care of younger ones. The present study explored the progression of sharing behaviors among children in boarding environments and the mechanisms underlying these behaviors. Utilizing methodologies such as story completion, the dictator game, and motivational ranking, this study compared the sharing consciousness and behaviors of children under different administrative approaches: kinship boarding, class boarding, and day school. Additionally, we examined the roles of moral reasoning and empathy in how boarding styles influence sharing behaviors. The results revealed that children in kinship boarding exhibited more sharing consciousness, as well as both proactive and reactive sharing behaviors, compared to their counterparts in class boarding or day school settings. Furthermore, affective and cognitive empathy function as mediators in the relationship between boarding styles and children’s sharing behaviors, with sharing consciousness serving as a moderating factor.
This article explores the embodied dimension of authoring life trajectories for individuals who have undergone heart transplantation. Confronting the radical otherness of existential finitude can create a rich context for examining the relationships between authorship, corporeality, and creative processes. By integrating Merleau-Ponty’s phenomenology of the body with Susanne Langer’s theory of affective semiosis and presentational signs, this work aims to foster a productive dialogue between these perspectives, grounded in Semiotic Cultural Psychology, which meta-theoretically synthesizes a diverse range of knowledge on the transformative interaction between individuals and culture. The article presents three participants’ cases, selected for their ideographic expressiveness, as empirical evidence that both enlivens and enriches this study’s theoretical and epistemological foundations. The fragments of participants’ elaborations were derived from individual interviews conducted at the IMIP heart transplant clinic between 2022 and 2023. IMIP is a university hospital located in Recife. The interviewees were adults who had undergone transplantation at least one year prior. The discussion of the reports highlights three interpretative axes: (a) embodied ambiguities and tensions experienced; (b) living metaphors and potential presentational signs regarding life trajectories; (c) ways of referencing the future and temporality of experiences felt intensely in the present and their methods of reconstructing the past. The interpretative analysis of participants’ metaphors aims to shed light on the role of corporeality in the construction of meaning and, consequently, in the creative perspective of life and the sense of authorship when facing the alterity, in this case, specifically of illness and consecutive heart transplantation. This article seeks to contribute to studying affective semiosis and corporeality in Cultural Psychology by highlighting its hermeneutic relevance as a critical feature of the human cultural construction of the self, others, and the world.
The analysis of eye movements is a noninvasive, reliable and fast method to detect and quantify brain (dys)function. Here, we investigated the performance of two novel eye-trackers—the Thomas Oculus Motus-research mobile (TOM-rm) and the TOM-research stationary (TOM-rs)—and compared them with the performance of a well-established video-based eye-tracker, i.e., the EyeLink 1000 Plus (EL). The TOM-rm is a fully integrated, tablet-based mobile device that presents visual stimuli and records head-unrestrained eye movements at 30 Hz without additional infrared illumination. The TOM-rs is a stationary, video-based eye-tracker that records eye movements at either high spatial or high temporal resolution. We compared the performance of all three eye-trackers in two different behavioral tasks: pro- and anti-saccade and free viewing. We collected data from 30 human subjects while running all three eye-tracking devices in parallel. Parameters requiring a high spatial or temporal resolution (e.g., saccade latency or gain), as derived from the data, differed significantly between the EL and the TOM-rm in both tasks. Differences between results derived from the TOM-rs and the EL were most likely due to experimental conditions, which could not be optimized for both systems simultaneously. We conclude that the TOM-rm can be used for measuring basic eye-movement parameters, such as the error rate in a typical pro- and anti-saccade task, or the number and position of fixations in a visual foraging task, reliably at comparably low spatial and temporal resolution. The TOM-rs, on the other hand, can provide high-resolution oculomotor data at least on a par with an established reference system.
The value of population screening for suicide risk remains unclear. The US Army’s annual medical examination, the Periodic Health Assessment (PHA), screens for suicidality and other mental and physical health problems. Here in our 2014–2019 cohort study we used PHA and Army administrative data (n= 1,042,796 PHAs from 452,473 soldiers) to develop a model to predict 6-month nonfatal and fatal suicide attempts (SAs). The model was designed to establish eligibility for a planned high-risk SA prevention intervention. The PHA suicide risk screening questions had limited value, as 95% of SAs occurred among soldiers who denied suicidality. However, a simple least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) penalized regression model that included a wide range of administrative predictors had good test sample discrimination (0.794 (standard error 0.009) area under the receiver operating characteristic curve) and calibration (integrated calibration index 0.0001). The 25% of soldiers at highest predicted risk accounted for 69.5% of 6-month SAs, supporting use of the model to target preventive interventions.
ObjectivesBoth mindfulness and humor are inherently connected to well-being. Recent research found evidence for their combined effect in a joint training, the Humor-Enriched Mindfulness-Based Program (HEMBP). This study extends these findings by exploring (1) effects of Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) on different forms of humor, (2) differential effects of the HEMBP on outcomes compared to MBSR, and (3) whether the HEMBP and MBSR may alter worldviews.MethodNinety participants were randomly allocated to three conditions: the HEMBP, MBSR, and a wait-list control group. Participants’ mindfulness, psychological well-being, life satisfaction, perceived stress, comic styles, and primal world beliefs (primals) were assessed before and after the trainings, and at 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-ups. Changes in outcome variables over time were modeled by applying linear mixed-effects models.ResultsThe HEMBP enhanced participants’ mindfulness, benevolent humor, psychological well-being, and life satisfaction compared to the wait-list control. Similarly, MBSR increased participants’ mindfulness and life satisfaction while reducing perceived stress and primalgood, but no effects on humor were observed. Comparison between the two trainings revealed trends toward a greater increase in benevolent humor in the HEMBP group and a greater decrease ingoodin the MBSR group.ConclusionThe results largely replicate previous research on the efficacy of the HEMBP. Both programs demonstrated similar effects on outcomes, with only the HEMBP increasing benevolent humor and psychological well-being, while MBSR reduced stress. Further research is needed to investigate qualitative aspects of the integration of humor in MBPs and the long-term impact of MBPs on individuals’ worldviews.PreregistrationThis study is not preregistered.
The COVID-19 pandemic disproportionally affected parents with young children whose incomes are below the federal poverty threshold. However, studies examining life changes related to parents’ mental well-being due to pandemic effects are limited. In addition, given the racial disparities in mental health established in prior literature, clarifying the role of race in the relationships between life changes and parents’ mental well-being may help identify culturally responsive interventions that support racially/ethnically diverse families in crisis. Therefore, using a cross-sectional survey, this descriptive and exploratory study examined the impact of COVID-19 on the life changes of 408 English-speaking parents of preschool children whose incomes were below the federal poverty threshold. Half of the parents indicated that the pandemic had a negative impact on their life, including loss of employment, financial difficulty, difficulty accessing food, and challenges with finding childcare. While some parents reported feeling closer to their children, the majority felt more stressed, anxious, and depressed after the pandemic started. Not surprisingly, physical activity and better parent-child relationships were associated with reduced levels of stress and depression in parents in addition to access to childcare support. Interestingly, the negative impact of the pandemic was more correlated with White parents’ stress, anxiety, and depression than Black parents. During the post-pandemic phase, providing parental support to improve family cohesion and interactions is promising in minimizing stress, anxiety, and depression. Results from this study should be interpreted with caution due to the nature of the cross-sectional design and use of self-report data from parents.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and anxiety disorders are early-onset mental disorders characterized by selective attention and strong emotional reactions. Attentional bias has been proposed to play a role in the development, onset, and maintenance of the disorders, but few studies have included youth with mental disorders, and no study has included more than one clinical group, making it unclear whether biased attention is disorder-specific or transdiagnostic in nature. In the present study, 65 youths with OCD (Mage= 13.6 [2.4], 57% girls), 52 youths with anxiety disorders (Mage= 14.5 [2.6] 83% girls), and 45 youths without a psychiatric disorder (Mage= 13.9 [3.1], 67% girls) completed a modified dot-probe task that included threat, incompleteness, and disgust cues. Contrary to our hypotheses, no group exhibited any attentional bias to any emotional cue, no group differences were present, and individual differences in attentional bias were not associated with individual differences in any symptom type. Disgust cues produced slower response times compared to the other emotional cues, but this effect was consistent across all type of trials and present in all three groups. In this study, no support for biased attention in treatment-seeking youth with OCD or anxiety disorders was found, which is in line with recent findings in adults using the dot-probe task. As attentional processes are clearly implicated in the clinical manifestation of these disorders, future research should try to better operationalize and measure relevant processes.
Psychological Inflexibility (PI) is related to negative psychological, social, and academic adjustment among university students. The Acceptance and Action Questionnaire for University Students (AAQ-US) was developed as a specific measure of PI in university contexts to overcome some limitations of general PI questionnaires to predict mental health and academic performance in university students. This study addresses the validation of the Italian version of the AAQ-US in two samples of Italian undergraduate students. Sample 1 consisted of 118 university students (67.8% females, Mean age = 23.2 years) and Sample 2 consisted of 190 students (72.1% females, Mean age = 22.7 years). In addition to the AAQ-US, participants completed measures of psychological outcomes (anxiety, depression, and life satisfaction), academic functioning (procrastination, average grade, and completed courses), and general PI. Exploratory and confirmatory analyses supported a one-factor model for the AAQ-US scores. Measurement invariance across gender was also supported. The internal consistency was excellent in both samples. Higher AAQ-US scores were significantly related to poorer psychological outcomes and academic functioning, supporting the concurrent validity. The Italian version of the AAQ-US also proved convergent validity with measures of general PI and incremental validity in predicting psychological (anxiety, depression, and life satisfaction) as well as academic outcomes above and beyond measures of general PI. The Italian version of the AAQ-US proved to be a reliable and valid measure of PI in university contexts, and more useful than measures of general PI to predict academic outcomes.
This article describes the findings of a study that explored potential factors that influence the pass rate for those taking marriage and family therapy (MFT) licensing exams, both the national and California exams. An online, national survey was conducted to determine factors associated with passing the MFT licensing exams. The survey included measures of test anxiety, coping strategies, perceived stress, and experience of discrimination. The demographic results included patterns of racial and age disparities similar to those reported by the Association of Social Work Boards (2022), especially for Black respondents. Specific and readily implemented recommendations for making the current exams more equitable include (a) changing the phrasing of questions, (b) clarifying and reducing the scope of the content, (c) reducing the number of questions during the 4-hour period, and (d) ensuring adequate accommodations for disabilities.
PurposeOur goals were to: 1) examine the occurrence of behavioral and emotional symptoms in children on the autism spectrum in a large national sample, stratifying by sex, and 2) evaluate whether children with increased autism-related social communication deficits also experience more behavioral and emotional problems.MethodsParticipants (n = 7,998) were from 37 cohorts from the Environmental influences on Child Health Outcomes (ECHO) Program. Cross-sectional information on demographic factors, parent-report of an ASD diagnosis by clinician, Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS) scores, and Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) scores were obtained for children aged 2.5–18 years by surveys. We examined mean differences in CBCL Total Problems and DSM-oriented subscale scores by autism diagnosis and by child sex. Analyses using logistic regression were conducted to examine whether autism was associated with higher CBCL scores. We further examined if these relationships differed by child age category (< 6 years, 6–11 years, 12 + years). The relationships between SRS score and CBCL total and subscale scores were examined using quantile regression models, with analyses adjusted for child sex and age.ResultsIn ECHO, 553 youth were reported by a parent to have a clinician diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) (432 [78%] boys and 121 [22%] girls). Youth on the spectrum had higher mean CBCL raw scores on Total Problems and all DSM-oriented subscales compared to those not on the spectrum (all p < 0.0001). Analyses adjusted for sex and stratified by age group indicated that higher odds of autism diagnosis were associated with total, depression, anxiety, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) scales in the top 30% of the CBCL score distribution. Autistic girls were more likely to have parent-reported depression and anxiety compared to autistic boys. In quantile regression analyses, we observed evidence of stronger associations between SRS and CBCL for those in higher quantiles of CBCL total problems scale score (beta representing 1-unit change in SRS associated with 1-unit increase in CBCL total problems scale score), among children in the 70-90th percentile (β = 1.60, p < 0.01), or top 10th percentile (β = 2.43, p < 0.01) of the CBCL total problems scale score distribution. Similar findings were seen for the DSM-oriented depression, anxiety, and ADHD subscales.ConclusionResults from this large national sample suggest increased behavioral and emotional problems among autistic children compared to non-autistic children throughout early life. Among children on the spectrum this may warrant increased monitoring for co-occurring behavioral and emotional problems.
Measuring attention and engagement is essential for understanding a wide range of psychological phenomena. Advances in technology have made it possible to measure real-time attention to naturalistic stimuli, providing ecologically valid insight into temporal dynamics. We developed a research protocol calledTrace, which records anonymous facial landmarks, expressions, and patterns of movement associated with engagement in screen-based media. Trace runs in a standard internet browser and resembles a contemporary media player. It is embedded in the open-source package PsychoJS (the JavaScript sister library of PsychoPy) hosted via Pavlovia, and can be integrated with a wide range of behavioral research methods. Developed over multiple iterations and tested with over 200 participants in three studies, including the official broadcast of a major theatre production, Trace is a powerful, user-friendly protocol allowing behavioral researchers to capture audience attention and engagement in screen-based media as part of authentic, ecologically valid audience experiences.
The ability to monitor for rare critical events tends to deteriorate over time on task, an effect termed thevigilance decrement. Although the decrement has been replicated many times, it has generally been studied with sensory discrimination tasks. Research using cognitive vigilance tasks, which require judgments of symbolic stimulus characteristics, has produced less consistent results. To test the robustness and nature of the cognitive vigilance decrement, the current study developed a computational performance model of a novel monitoring task. Participants monitored for critical events in a task that required them to estimate the central tendency of a set of three-digit readings each trial. For analysis, data from the first and last 4-min blocks of trials were fit with a model based on signal detection theory. The model assumed that participants could either perform the task in an attentive state, in which decisions were stimulus-driven, or could lapse into an inattentive state, in which decisions were guessed. Parameter estimates indicated an increase in attentional lapse rate and a decrease in positive guess rate over time, coupled with a decrease in internal processing noise. The effects of these latent changes on observable response rates, however, were modest and partially offsetting. Results suggest that attention lapses and a tendency toward negative guesses are common causes of vigilance loss across sensory and cognitive tasks, but can have small effects on observed responses.
Episodic memory and future thinking are generally considered as two parts of the same mental time travelling system in vertebrates. Modern cephalopods, with their independent evolutionary lineage and their complex cognitive abilities, appear as promising species to determine whether these abilities have separate evolutionary histories or not. In our study, we tested future-planning abilities in a cephalopod species which has been shown to possess episodic-like memory abilities: the common cuttlefish. They were tested on their ability to plan for a future need for food instead of following their current need to hide. To explore the flexibility in such future-planning behaviour, we varied the protective value of the shelter. No future-planning behaviour was observed in cuttlefish during our experiment regardless of the value of the shelter provided. From one perspective, as cuttlefish were facing a trade-off decision, the attractiveness of the shelter (to satisfy their current need) might have been of higher value than their future need to eat (low drive for food). By contrast, our results might reflect an inability of cuttlefish to act in the present to secure future needs, suggesting that episodic memory and future planning might be distinct cognitive traits with their own evolutionary histories. Identifying both similarities and differences in complex cognition between vertebrate species and cephalopods is important to pinpoint which evolutionary pressures have led to the emergence of complex cognitive abilities.
The purpose of this study was to develop a five-item form of the Religious and Spiritual Struggles Scale (RSS; Exline et al.,Psychology of Religion and Spirituality, 6, 208-222,2014), (2022). Drawing upon three samples – 711 depressed adults from prior studies that utilized the RSS (Study 1), 303 undergraduates from a public university in the Southeastern U.S. (Study 2), and 121 adults seeking psychotherapy and/or primary care in an integrated behavioral health clinic (Study 3) – findings indicated the five-item version represents a structurally sound and reliable instrument for assessing clinically relevant struggles (divine, interpersonal, moral, doubt, ultimate meaning struggles) in mental health care settings. Specifically, Cronbach’s alphas for the RSS-5 ranged from .77 to .85 across the three studies. Further, scores on this short form overlapped highly with the original RSS in Study 1 and were moderately to strongly associated with validated assessments of positive (well-being, flourishing, and perceived meaning in life) and negative (suicide ideation, depression and anxiety symptoms) mental health in Study 2 and 3. When accounting for depression and anxiety symptoms, RSS-5 scores were also uniquely associated with patients’ suicidal ideation over the past month in Study 3. Although we found evidence of multidimensionality of the selected items that aligned with psychometric findings for the original RSS (Exline et al.,Psychology of Religion and Spirituality, 6, 208-222,2014), findings also supported a unidimensional factor structure for the RSS-5 in each sample. Looking ahead, the RSS-5 will hopefully support clinical research and practice in ways that enhance training clinicians’ responsiveness to patients who are experiencing spiritual struggles.
ObjectivesMajor Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a severe and widespread psychiatric condition that affects individuals globally. Suicidal ideation is one of the key symptoms associated with this disorder. Numerous studies have explored the impact of adverse childhood experiences on the development of suicidal thoughts in adulthood. However, limited research focuses on the underlying mechanisms that mediate this relationship. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate whether emotional reactivity, along with probabilistic and reinforcement learning (PRL), serves as a mediator in the relationship between adverse childhood experiences and suicidal ideation in Iranian patients with MDD.MethodThe study included 201 inpatients diagnosed with MDD hospitalized in various psychiatric wards across Shiraz, Iran. Participants were selected using a convenient sampling method. Data were collected through the Probabilistic Reward Task, the Emotional Reactivity Scale, the Beck Scale of Suicidal Ideation, and the Modified Adverse Childhood Experiences – International Questionnaire. The collected data were analyzed using Pearson’s correlation test and structural equation modeling with SPSS and AMOS 26.ResultsAdverse childhood experiences were found to have a direct and significant relationship with suicidal ideation (p< .001). Additionally, emotional reactivity and PRL served as significant mediators in the relationship between adverse childhood experiences and suicidal ideation.ConclusionOur findings indicate that various factors—including adverse childhood experiences, emotional reactivity, and PRL—contribute to the development of suicidal ideation in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Therefore, it is essential to consider these factors when developing therapeutic plans.
This article explores the role of constructive anger in motivating and sustaining climate action. It considers relevant research in climate psychology with special attention to the dynamic between climate-related anger, action, and hope. The psychological research is then applied to a reconstruction of the concept of anger and hope in philosophical and theological approaches. Developing the concept of constructive anger, this article suggests that such constructive anger can be a factor in moving through apathy, fear, and depression and mobilizing toward collective climate action. Climate-related anger can be relieved through collective forms of climate action and the sense of collective efficacy that can emerge in becoming active. These can become a means to generating resistant, active, constructive forms of hope that can be distinguished from deceptive forms of hope.
The viewpoint that unitization provides a possibility of increasing the contribution of familiarity to associative memory has been widely accepted, but its effects on associative memory and recollection remain controversial. The current study aims to explain these mixed results by considering a potential moderator: changes in the level of unitization from encoding to retrieval phases. During the encoding phase, participants learned the related and unrelated picture pairs (i.e., high vs. low levels of unitization). Subsequently, they needed to distinguish between the intact and rearranged pairs during retrieval, where, in these rearranged pairs, the level of unitization from encoding to retrieval phases may or may not change. Meanwhile, the scalp electroencephalographic activity (EEG) was recorded. The results showed a significant familiarity-related FN400 old/new effect for related picture pairs alone, which supported the above viewpoint. However, its impact on the associative memory and recollection-related LPC old/new effects varied with the level of unitization changes—specifically, under the unchanged conditions. Although related pairs elicited significant FN400 and LPC old/new effects, the differences in these old/new effects and associative memory between the related and unrelated picture pairs were not significant. Conversely, under the changed conditions, related picture pairs not only elicited significantly larger FN400 and LPC old/new effects but also improved associative memory more than unrelated picture pairs. These findings not only clarify some of the inconsistencies in the literature concerning the impact of unitization on associative memory but also suggest that unitization affects the contributions of familiarity and recollection to associative memory differently, its effectiveness varying with the level of unitization changes.
Emotion regulation is integral to well-being and adaptive behavior. Differing regulation strategies have important downstream consequences. Evidence suggests that reappraisal use can improve memory and reduce emotional reactivity to previously regulated stimuli. Reappraisal is cognitively demanding and dependent on prefrontal-based cognitive control processes typically enhanced by motivation. We recently demonstrated that motivational incentives increased reappraisal use and decreased negative affect during emotion regulation. It is currently unknown how incentive manipulations of emotion regulation affect later memory and affective response: some accounts suggest that motivation boosts memory relatively automatically, via dopamine input to hippocampus, whereas others suggest that motivated memory might depend on control allocation at encoding. In a 2-day online study, we examined how motivated emotion regulation relates to downstream memory and affect. Participants completed an emotion regulation task under baseline and incentive conditions, with recognition memory and affect examined ~ 24-hours later. Surprisingly, for stimuli encountered under incentive, memory decreased, challenging the hypothesis that motivational enhancements of memory occur automatically. Additionally, Day 2 affect did not significantly differ for stimuli encountered in baseline and incentive contexts, suggesting that incentive-related affective benefits were short-lived. In contrast, reappraisal predicted increased memory and reduced negative affect upon reencounter. These results suggest that incentive may have promoted global, potentially automatic changes in affect, independent from regulatory control processes that also could lead to affective change. Further characterization of these multiple pathways will be important for advancing a mechanistic understanding of emotion regulation and its consequences across motivational contexts.
The present study investigated the role of inhibition in peripheral cueing by nonpredictive cues. Based on past findings, we investigated the possibility that inhibition of learned irrelevant cue colors is typical of short cue-target intervals, with more competition for attention capture between cue versus target. In line with the expectation, in a modified contingent-capture protocol, with short cue-target intervals, we found same-location costs (SLCs) – that is, disadvantages for validly cued targets (cue = target position) compared to invalidly cued targets (cue ≠ target position) with consistently colored non-matching cues. In contrast, no such effects for inconsistently colored non-matching cues were observed with short intervals. In a control condition, with longer intervals, the differences between consistently and inconsistently colored cues were no longer observed. We argue that this effect is due to participants proactively inhibiting consistently colored non-matching cues with short intervals but not with long intervals, but that inhibition failed with inconsistently colored non-matching cues that could take on different possible colors. Alternative explanations in terms of object-updating costs or masking were ruled out. We conclude that the currently found type of inhibition of peripheral cues most likely reflected the limitation of proactively established control structures that could be used at the same time.
Loneliness is a common feeling often framed in negative terms. It can take several forms, including social, emotional, and existential loneliness, or through the concept of solitude, which is the desire to be alone. This qualitative study explores these types of loneliness among Swedish parents who regret having children. Our analysis of 29 interviews shows that loneliness is intertwined with regretting parenthood. Participants perceived that parental regret was unconventional, socially taboo, and unspeakable, which resulted in feelings of loneliness, shame, and guilt. They also reported that healthcare professionals, friends, and family rarely acknowledge parental feelings of regret and loneliness. Since loneliness is associated with the potential for mental health issues, it is important to build support structures for parents. In Sweden, the welfare state relies on healthcare professionals (such as nurses, midwives, and psychologists) to support parents. There is hence a need to create better support structures for parents dealing with regret and loneliness, including specialized training for healthcare professionals who work with these vulnerable groups.
Severity of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is associated with increased relationship distress and decreased relationship satisfaction. The loved ones of individuals with OCD often engage in family accommodation (FA) behaviors that serve the same function as compulsive behavior engaged in by the individual with OCD. The current study aims to expand the literature by examining target variables from the perspective of the individual with OCD. Participants included 139 adults with self-reported OCD who were in a romantic relationship. A treatment and non-treatment seeking sample was recruited in the US through clinics and clinicians specializing in OCD treatment. Results indicated the following: (1) a significant positive association between OCD symptom severity and FA, (2) a significant negative association between OCD symptom severity and relationship satisfaction, and (3) an interaction between FA and OCD symptom severity when predicting relationship satisfaction such that FA moderates the negative association between OCD and relationship satisfaction. At high levels of OCD symptom severity, FA was found to be negatively associated with relationship satisfaction; however, at low levels of OCD symptom severity, FA was positively associated with relationship satisfaction. Findings suggest the importance of addressing family accommodation in treatment of individuals with OCD, especially at higher levels of severity.
This article contends that Western iterations of sovereignty and its apparatuses produce, in part, souls and selves that have contributed to destructive, depersonalizing relations between human beings, other species, and the Earth. Given this, it is necessary to reimagine the notion of “soul” in relation to the idea of anarchy with the aim of creating more life-enhancing and inclusive eco-social-political relations. The underlying premise of this article is that anarchic souls are an existential reality that, in the West, have mostly been hidden, denied, or suppressed as a result of persons internalizing the philosophical and theological ideas, beliefs, and values associated with varied apparatuses of domination.
Positive paternal involvement during early childhood is important for fostering healthy development. However, mental health conditions, particularly depression, can significantly limit a father's ability to engage constructively. This study explored whether religiosity can act as a resource for fathers, potentially mitigating the adverse effects of depression on their ability to engage in their child’s life. Analyzing survey data from 1147 fathers with children aged two to eight, the study investigated the how religiosity and depression interact across four domains of paternal involvement: engagement, warmth, harsh punishment, and positive control. Hierarchical regression analyses revealed that fathers with higher religiosity scores exhibited more warmth, greater engagement, and higher levels of both harsh punishment and positive control techniques. Fathers with more depression symptoms were associated with more frequent harsh punishment behaviors and lower reports of warmth compared to fathers with less depression symptoms. Notably, a significant interaction effect between depression and religiosity was identified, indicating that fathers with high levels of both depressive symptoms and religiosity were at the greatest risk of engaging in harsh punishment behaviors. These findings suggest that while religiosity may support positive parenting behaviors, it may also intensify the use of harsh punishment among fathers struggling with depression. This highlights the need for targeted interventions to help fathers manage their depression and adopt positive parenting practices.
This study empirically investigated the mechanisms underlying work-to-family conflict and family-to-work conflict’s effect on second-child fertility intention by focusing on parental burnout and grandparent support. A sample of 1072 Chinese respondents who had already had one child were surveyed. The results of the two-wave longitudinal study showed that both work-to-family conflict and family-to-work conflict exerted a significant negative effect on second-child fertility intention. Mediation path analysis revealed that both independent variables had significant positive effects on parental burnout, while parental burnout exhibited significant negative effects on the dependent variable. Subsequently, our study confirmed that parental burnout served as a mediating variable between work-to-family conflict, family-to-work conflict, and second-child fertility intention. Furthermore, grandparent support moderated only the direct positive effect of work-to-family conflict on parental burnout and the indirect effect of work-to-family conflict on second-child fertility intention via parental burnout. Thus, the indirect effect of work-to-family conflict on second-child fertility intention is weakened when grandparent support is high. The study offers implications that mitigating the negative effects of family-to-work conflict on second-child fertility intention require support not only from the micro-ecosystem of the family, but also from the meso- and macro-ecosystems, such as organizations and society.
This study examined a mentorship intervention for junior teachers (i.e., those with less than five years of experience) where junior teachers had the opportunity to meet with mentors twice daily across four weeks. Changes in junior teachers’ stress levels and sense of self-efficacy were measured. Researchers collected data from three junior teachers and mentor dyads in a Southern school district in the United States. A Concurrent Multiple Baseline Design across three teachers was used to examine the impact of the daily mentorship intervention. The results suggested that the intervention decreased all three junior teachers’ daily stress but had little impact on their overall perceived stress levels. The intervention did not impact junior teachers’ sense of self-efficacy. Most of the participants rated the intervention as feasible and acceptable. This study supports a promising novel mentorship program for decreasing junior teachers’ stress. Limitations, implications for practice, and directions for future research are discussed.
Parenting is a product of complex, interactive, and interwoven factors, which are affected by a variety of characteristics, including parent characteristics and the family environment. Such characteristics, including marital dissatisfaction and poor mental health, could place infants at an increased risk for affect regulation difficulties. The current longitudinal study extended previous research by examining how multiple factors of the parenting environment are associated with infant affect regulation with mothers and fathers. Families (n= 89, primarily White) from the Southeastern United States were assessed at 4 and 8 months of age. Parent mental health (anxiety and depression symptoms, well-being) and marital satisfaction were measured by questionnaires when infants were 4 months old. Infant affect regulation was measured via infant affect observational ratings during a face-to-face play task at 4 and 8 months of age. Mothers, who were higher in well-being, had infants lower in negative affect. Infants, whose fathers were low in social anxiety and had higher marital satisfaction, had decreased levels of negative affect. Findings provide target areas for promoting infant affect regulation, such as parent marital satisfaction and parent mental health.
Infectious diseases have been major causes of death throughout human history and are assumed to broadly affect human psychology. However, whether and how conceptual processing, an internal world model central to various cognitive processes, adapts to such salient stress variables remains largely unknown. To address this, we conducted three studies examining the relationship between pathogen severity and semantic space, probed through the main neurocognitive semantic dimensions revealed by large-scale text analyses: one cross-cultural study (across 43 countries) and two historical studies (over the past 100 years). Across all three studies, we observed that increasing pathogen severity was associated with an enhancement of the sensory-motor dimension in the collective semantic space. These patterns remained robust after controlling for the effects of sociocultural variables, including economic wealth and societal norms of tightness. These results highlight the universal dynamic mechanisms of collective semantics, such that pathogen stress potentially drives sensorially oriented semantic processing.
This study investigates the prevalence, stability, and associated factors of internalizing symptoms in children and adolescents within a clinical setting. The sample included 299 patients aged 3–17 years from a Child and Adolescent Mental Health outpatient clinic, followed over one year. Internalizing symptoms were assessed using the parent-rated version of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), completed at baseline and at one-year follow-up. Stability was evaluated using prospective consistency, retrospective consistency, kappa coefficient, and Spearman’s Rho correlations. Multivariate analyses were conducted to examine associated factors. Baseline prevalence of internalizing symptoms was 40% (95% CI: 33.4-44.8%), with moderate one-year stability (ρ = 0.48, 95% CI: 0.37-0.58). Key factors associated with internalizing symptoms at follow-up included: For girls, higher baseline SDQ emotional symptoms (OR = 2.12,p< 0.001), lower paternal education (OR = 9.70,p= 0.003), and lower SDQ hyperactivity/inattention scores (OR = 0.70,p= 0.016). For boys, comorbid externalizing symptoms (OR = 8.18,p< 0.001), maternal anxiety (OR = 2.35,p= 0.031), maternal unemployment (OR = 2.13,p= 0.043), and a sibling diagnosed with ADHD (OR = 0.10,p= 0.012). For children, peer problems (OR = 1.20,p= 0.02) and the absence of an externalizing diagnosis (OR = 0.33,p= 0.013). For adolescents, lower paternal education (OR = 5.99,p= 0.003), higher SDQ emotional symptoms scores (OR = 13.48,p< 0.001), and female gender. Gender and age differences in associated factors highlight the interplay of neurobiological and social influences. These findings underscore the importance of considering gender and age-specific factors when developing preventive and therapeutic interventions for internalizing symptoms in clinical populations.
Rhythm perception in speech and non-speech acoustic stimuli has been shown to be affected by general acoustic biases as well as by phonological properties of the native language of the listener. The present paper extends the cross-linguistic approach in this field by testing the application of the iambic-trochaic law as an assumed general acoustic bias on rhythmic grouping of non-speech stimuli by speakers of three languages: Arabic, Hebrew and German. These languages were chosen due to relevant differences in their phonological properties on the lexical level alongside similarities on the phrasal level. The results show Iambic-Trochaic-Law (ITL) conforming weak–strong grouping for duration-cued acoustic salience. However, only German participants judged intensity-varying sequences as strong–weak; no grouping preferences were found for speakers of Arabic and Hebrew. Overall these results suggest that prosodic properties of the phonological phrase and of the lexical level of the native language show differing effects on rhythmical grouping.
Sociodemographic disadvantage is a stressor related with unsupportive parenting practices, but little is known about the process by which it may undermine early parental emotion socialization. In the current study, we examined (1) the direct association between sociodemographic risk and supportive emotion socialization and (2) possible indirect effects via psychological distress and mother-oriented cry processing (i.e., negative cognitions about crying) in a short-term 3-wave longitudinal study that followed a stratified sample of 259 first-time mothers from pregnancy through 14-months postpartum. Sociodemographic risk included mothers’ age, education, and income reported by the expectant mothers prenatally. Psychological distress was assessed prior to the 6-month laboratory visit using mothers’ reports on depressive symptoms, difficulty regulating emotions, and trait positive and negative emotions. During the 6-month laboratory visit, mother-oriented cry processing was assessed using a video-recall procedure. Supportive emotion socialization at 14 months was assessed based on observer-rated maternal sensitivity during two distress eliciting tasks and maternal reports. Consistent with prediction, the first indirect pathway from higher sociodemographic disadvantage to lower supportive emotional socialization through higher mother-oriented cry processing was statistically significant, however the second indirect pathway from higher sociodemographic disadvantage to higher psychological distress to higher mother-oriented cry processing to lower supportive emotion socialization was not. Over and above these indirect effects, higher sociodemographic disadvantage was directly associated with lower supportive emotion socialization. Psychological distress was not significantly directly associated with emotion socialization. These findings highlight the importance of policies and interventions that provide financial assistance to the mothers experiencing sociodemographic disadvantage and target their psychological wellbeing.
The link between parenting styles and adolescents’ cyberbullying is well-established. However, few studies have examined fathers and mothers’ parenting styles separately, and even fewer have explored the relationship between parenting styles and cyberbullying from the perspective of attitude towards human dignity. Therefore, the current cross-sectional study aimed to investigate whether attitude towards human dignity underlie the associations between parenting styles and cyberbullying among adolescents. 768 adolescents from two different middle schools in China were measured for their perceptions of parenting style, cyberbullying behavior, and attitude towards human dignity. Regression analysis showed that except for paternal overprotection, both the cognition and behavioral tendency of human dignity had a significant indirect effect on fathers’/mothers’ parenting styles and cyberbullying. Still, the emotion of human dignity had no significant indirect effect.
Theory of mind (ToM) describes a child’s ability to accurately attribute mental states to themselves and others. ToM has been conceptualized as a protective factor against psychopathology across childhood. Little is known about potential moderators of this association. For example, it is unclear whether there are subgroups of children for whom well-developed ToM plays a stronger protective role for adaptive functioning compared to other children. In a community sample of 467 children, this study examined whether child temperament assessed at age 3 years moderates the association between ToM at age 3 years and internalizing and externalizing symptoms at age 5 years. We used a community detection approach to identify three distinct temperament groups: emotionally and behaviorally well-regulated (EBR), emotionally and behaviorally dysregulated (EBD), and introverted and overcontrolled (IOC). Results from moderated regression analyses suggest that social competence had a stronger protective role for the two temperament groups at elevated risk for emotional and behavioral problems, i.e., EBD and IOC. For the IOC group, greater ToM was associated with reduced externalizing symptoms. Results support the view that ToM, one aspect of social competence, may serve as a protective factor against the development of psychopathology, particularly among introverted and overcontrolled children.
BackgroundIn recent years, the adoption of artificial intelligence (AI) has become increasingly relevant in various sectors, including higher education. This study investigates the psychosocial factors influencing AI adoption among Peruvian university students and uses an extended UTAUT2 model to examine various constructs that may impact AI acceptance and use.MethodThis study employed a quantitative approach with a survey-based design. A total of 482 students from public and private universities in Peru participated in the research. The study utilized partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) to analyze the data and test the hypothesized relationships between the constructs.ResultsThe findings revealed that three out of the six hypothesized factors significantly influenced AI adoption among Peruvian university students. Performance expectancy (β = 0.274), social influence (β = 0.355), and AI learning self-efficacy (β = 0.431) were found to have significant positive effects on AI adoption. In contrast to expectations, ethical awareness, perceived playfulness, AI readiness and AI anxiety did not have significant impacts on AI appropriation in this context.ConclusionThis study highlights the importance of practical benefits, the social context, and self-confidence in the adoption of AI within Peruvian higher education. These findings contribute to the understanding of AI adoption in diverse educational settings and provide a framework for developing effective AI implementation strategies in higher education institutions. The results can guide universities and policymakers in creating targeted approaches to enhance AI adoption and integration in academic environments, focusing on demonstrating the practical value of AI, leveraging social networks, and building students’ confidence in their ability to learn and use AI technologies.
Youth with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are at nearly twice the risk of experiencing obesity, compared to youth without ASD.WellnessEducation toCreateHealthy habits andActions toThrive (WE CHAT) is a novel chatbot that engages participants to enhance primary care delivery and associated care coordination services through mobile health (mHealth) technology focused on social determinants of health (SDOH) and social-emotional health. This study examines multiple perspectives regarding the development and implementation of innovative mHealth technology among youth with ASD. The phases of this study include (1) discussion among individuals and parents of children with ASD, (2) in-depth interviews with primary care providers (PCPs) who treat youth with ASD, and (3) in-depth interviews with interdisciplinary rehabilitation providers who treat youth with ASD. Phases 1 and 2 employed rapid qualitative analysis, and Phase 3 involved inductive thematic analysis to provide context to gaps identified in prior phases. Key themes across the three phases included thevariability of symptoms among individuals with ASD, thedifferences in perceived value of mHealth technology, theimportance of family-centered care, and therole of interdisciplinary support. Participants recommended the development of branching logic to increase the flexibility of mHealth technology designed for youth with ASD. This study gathered insight from multiple perspectives to identify opportunities for supporting independent participation in mHealth technology while reducing associated caregiver burden among youth with ASD. These findings may inform refinement and expansion of WE CHAT for patients with varying health needs.
ObjectivesThe present study tested the unique contributions of prenatal maternal mindfulness to infant emerging effortful control and negative affect at 6 months postnatal. Exploratory analyses evaluated the role of individual facets of mindfulness in predicting infant outcomes.MethodThe sample consisted of 178 individuals. Participants completed self-report measures of mindfulness during pregnancy (M= 16.91 gestational weeks;SD= 4.37) and postnatally (M= 6.54 months after birth;SD= 2.12). At 6 months postpartum, participants also reported on their infants' (55% female) emerging effortful control and negative affect using the Infant Behavior Questionnaire.ResultsGreater prenatal maternal mindfulness was associated with higher infant emerging effortful control (β= 0.40,p< 0.001) and lower negative affect (β= -0.16,p= 0.04). These relations remained statistically significant when controlling for postnatal mindfulness. The prenatal describing (β= 0.21,p= 0.02) and nonreacting (β= 0.28,p= 0.01) subscales of mindfulness were statistically significant predictors of emerging effortful control after controlling for postnatal mindfulness subscales. None of the subscales were significant predictors of infant negative affect after controlling for postnatal mindfulness.ConclusionsMaternal prenatal mindfulness predicted both infant emerging effortful control and negative affect. Individual facets of prenatal mindfulness demonstrated unique patterns of association with infant emerging effortful control, suggesting that aspects of mindfulness may be promotive factors to consider in future interventions. These findings highlight that mindfulness during pregnancy is linked to improved infant self-regulation and reduced emotional reactivity.PreregistrationThis study is not preregistered.
Both helping and voice are usually regarded as a positive workplace behavior that benefits organizations in various ways. It might seem that employees will receive a “double reward” from supervisors if they not only help but also voice. However, this research challenges this view. Drawing upon role incongruity theory, we propose that employees who exhibit both voice and helping behaviors are likely to receive lower performance evaluations from their supervisors than those who exhibit only one of these behaviors via affective liking. Results from a multi-source field study and a scenario-based experiment consistently provided supporting evidence that helping (or voice) promoted managerial performance evaluation only when voice (or helping) was low, in which affective liking serves as the underlying mechanism. Implications for both theory and practice were discussed.
This cross-sectional, cross-cultural study aimed to investigate the relationships between death anxiety and work passion, focusing on the dimensions of harmonious and obsessive passion, as well as the moderating roles of work centrality and connection to work. Participants included Portuguese (n= 301) and Saudi Arabian (n= 181) employees. Structural equation modeling was used to analyze these relationships. The results revealed significant differences between the two groups, with Arabian participants reporting higher levels of death anxiety, work passion, and work centrality compared to Portuguese participants. The model demonstrated an adequate fit in both cultural contexts. The results indicated that death anxiety was negatively associated with harmonious work passion and positively associated with obsessive work passion in both cultures, with these effects being more pronounced among Saudi Arabian participants. Results of moderation analysis revealed that work centrality moderated the relationship between death anxiety and harmonious work passion only in Saudi Arab sample, while connection to work moderated this relationship only in Portuguese sample. Furthermore, the results indicated that work centrality and connection to work have no moderating effects on obsessive work passion in both cultures. These findings highlight the potential influence of cultural values on attitudes toward work and the interplay between personal and professional life, shaping how individuals experience death anxiety in the workplace.
People may form impressions about different groups of people, including entrepreneurs. Drawing from the constructive and blind patriotism distinction, we suggested that demonstrating constructive, compared to blind patriotism, might improve social entrepreneurs’ authenticity and general impressions and thus positively affect success-related entrepreneurial outcomes (i.e., finding collaborators and funding). In line with our expectations, in a correlational Study 1 (N= 141), ratings of real-life social entrepreneurs on constructive patriotism positively predicted general perceptions of social entrepreneurs. We further explored these findings in twopreregisteredexperiments. In Study 2 (N= 428), participants in a constructive patriotism condition rated a fictional social entrepreneur more positively and were more willing to work for him than their counterparts in a blind patriotism condition. In Study 3 (N= 391), we found that expressions of constructive patriotism positively affected perceptions of authenticity and funding intentions. Study 3 also found evidence of a serial mediation effect: greater levels of authenticity ratings and more positive general perceptions mediated the effect of our condition on (a) intentions to work for and (b) fund the social entrepreneur. Therefore, expressions of constructive patriotism might help to manage public perceptions of social entrepreneurs.
Weight control issues are a challenge today, especially in children and adolescents. Self-efficacy may play an important role in adherence to healthy eating behaviors, and good assessment tools are required. This study aimed to both explore the implications of dietary self-efficacy on healthy eating and emotional variables and validate theChild Dietary Self-Efficacy Scalein the Spanish clinical context. A total of 151 patients aged 6 to 17 years receiving care in endocrinology units were evaluated. A third of the participants were assessed a second time. Questionnaires on self-efficacy, emotion regulation, affect, and eating behaviors were administered. Bivariate correlations, test-retest analyses, and linear regression were performed. For the first time, the scale was tested with confirmatory factor analysis. Dietary self-efficacy correlated with emotion regulation, affect, and eating behaviour, and was a predictor of later eating behaviour. Also, negative affect predicted lower dietary self-efficacy. The Spanish version of the instrument confirmed a one-factor solution. However, a more efficient 10-item version showed a better model fit. Dietary self-efficacy seems to have relevant implications for children’s emotional domains and for their adherence to healthy eating, and a valid Spanish version of the scale is now available for application in clinical contexts.
Substantial findings point to the risk of chronic pain following child maltreatment (CM). However, a coherent explanation for the mechanisms underlying pain following CM is lacking. Although peritraumatic pain may encompass a significant role in these processes, a systematic quantification of peritraumatic pain in CM has never been conducted. This study was conducted to provide an initial exploration of peritraumatic pain characteristics in CM, and its links with CM characteristics, pain expression, and later posttraumatic outcomes. Two samples of adult CM survivors (N= 160 andN= 120, respectively) filled out self-report questionnaires assessing peritraumatic pain characteristics, CM characteristics, peritraumatic dissociation, and complex posttraumatic-stress symptoms (cPTSD). Peritraumatic pain was reported by 42.2% (76 participants) and 57% (69 participants) in Samples 1 and 2, respectively. While pain was most prevalent in physical abuse (90%), it was also prevalent in sexual (63%) and emotional abuse (37.5%;X2(3) = 14.65,p= .002). Peritraumatic pain was most prevalent when the perpetrator was a family member (X2(3) = 14.65,p= .002), longer CM duration (p< .001), and in fight-or-flight peritraumatic responses (X2(2) = 7.13,p= .028). Peritraumatic pain expression did not differ for CM type (p> .083), and most participants reported that the perpetrator ignored their pain (73.9%). Explicit and concealing expressions of pain were associated with later cPTSD symptoms (p< .047). The findings provide an initial understanding of peritraumatic pain characteristics and phenomenology, demonstrating that pain is a substantial constituent of CM experiences and potential posttraumatic outcomes.
Job stress among child welfare professionals affects their mental and physical health and is associated with negative outcomes. Researchers have used self-report measures to document the stress experienced by those in the child welfare field, and this is the first study to use biometric technology across 72 h to identify physiological indicators of stress, recovery, and sleep in frontline child welfare workers in mostly rural areas (n= 32). A stress profile of the participants is presented on their heart rates, mean time-stressed, percent of time stressed, mean time relaxed, percent of time relaxed, mean sleep time, mean RMSSD in sleep, and body mass index (BMI). Variables were also examined by length of employment with the agency. Results indicate participants averaged nearly 16 h of physiological stress per day and were unable to spend much time in relaxation or recovery from stress. Stress appeared ubiquitous and possibly difficult to manage.
Guardians ad Litem (GALs) are volunteer child advocates in the state of Florida and are largely considered as playing a critical role in the child welfare system. However, there has been limited research on their role and relationship with youth in care. The purpose of this qualitative study was to examine GALs’ perspectives on their relationships with youth in the foster care system. This cross-sectional study included 555 GALs from the state of Florida in which volunteers were specifically asked to respond to an internet survey with a number of open-ended questions about their relationships with youth and how relationships developed with youth in foster care. Emergent themes related to the process of relationship building, as well as factors that influence their relationships with youth and strategies for building relationships were identified. Implications and recommendations for future research with child advocates and youth in foster care, training and support of advocates, and child welfare practice and policy are discussed.
The quality of mother-child interactions can affect child developmental outcomes, both positively and negatively. Little research has examined the factors that influence the quality of mother-infant interactions, particularly in a low-middle income country. Therefore, we examined sociodemographic, maternal, and child variables, to determine whether these were associated with the quality of maternal-infant interactions. 256 mother-infant dyads enrolled in a South African birth cohort study, the Drakenstein Child Health Study, were assessed. A comprehensive battery of sociodemographic and psychosocial questionnaires was utilised. Video footage of interaction between mothers and infants at a 14-week postnatal visit was coded and assessed using the Global Rating Scale (GRS). Hierarchical multiple linear regression models were used to examine the factors associated with the GRS domains. The domains included: (1) maternal sensitivities (sensitivity, intrusiveness, remoteness, depressive mood), (2) infant behaviours (sensitivity, inertness, distress), and (3) maternal-infant interaction. Maternal childhood trauma and smoking during pregnancy were associated with lower domain scores for the maternal contribution. Higher birth weight and initiated breastfeeding were associated with higher domain scores for infant behaviours, while maternal IPV exposure, and smoking tobacco were associated with lower domain scores for infant behaviours. Infant weight-for-age at birth and initiated breastfeeding were positively associated with the dyadic interaction. Factors associated with early positive and negative mother-infant interaction identified in this research could potentially serve as targets for intervention, with the ultimate aim of improving child developmental outcomes. Notably, no psychosocial variables were significantly associated with the dyadic interactions, emphasising how strong such interactions can be in the face of multiple stressors.
The Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC) was originally developed to evaluate interventions, and is a well-established assessment tool for challenging behaviours in people with intellectual disabilities and autistic people. However, whether the ABC displays longitudinal measurement invariance (i.e., whether it captures the same constructs over time) has been sparsely explored. The aim of the current study is to explore the factor structure, longitudinal measurement invariance, and clinical correlates of the ABC in autistic individuals with intellectual disabilities. Using data from a multicentre study of mental health assessment and treatment in autistic people with intellectual disabilities, the intake ABC scores of 200 autistic individuals with intellectual disabilities were used to explore the ABC factor structure, internal consistency, and clinical correlates (age, gender, level of intellectual disability, autism characteristics, communication skills). Scores across three time points (intake, post-intervention, follow-up) were used to explore longitudinal measurement invariance and internal consistency over time. The original five-factor structure showed a non-optimal but acceptable fit, which was similar or slightly improved compared to previous studies. Associations for some ABC subscales were found to be positive for autism characteristics and negative for communication skills. Four of the five subscales (irritability, social withdrawal, stereotypic behaviour, inappropriate speech) showed residual levels of longitudinal measurement invariance, while one subscale showed noninvariance (hyperactivity/noncompliance). The current study demonstrates the construct validity and applicability of the ABC in autistic individuals with intellectual disabilities, while also indicating that caution is advised for one of its subscales in comparisons across time.
Adopting a family system perspective, this study sets out to explore the association between family configurations of mother-child and father-child attachment to better understand children’s externalizing and internalizing behaviors in toddlerhood. A total of 182 heterosexual biparental families and their children (90 boys) were recruited from the general population. Most of the fathers and mothers were Canadian-born and the personal income and education level of the parents were high in comparison to the population of the province of Quebec at large. Attachment was assessed by direct observation using the Strange Situation Procedure (SSP) in infants aged 12–18 months. Children’s internalizing and externalizing behaviors were assessed in toddlers aged 24–30 months using questionnaires completed by both parents. Results showed that infants with resistant attachment to one parent and secure attachment to the other parent have more externalizing behaviors than children with a secure attachment to both parents. Moreover, children with a disorganized attachment to both parents showed more internalizing and externalizing problems than children with a disorganized attachment with one parent and secure with the other parent. These results highlight the need of adopting a systemic family perspective to better understand the link between attachment and children’s behavior problems.
Teachers are leaving the field at high rates, and it is important to investigate factors that impact teacher attrition including stress and burnout. In a sample of 468 teachers, 78% of teachers had thoughts of leaving or were leaving the field. Teachers were asked about their stress, coping, burnout, and efficacy with classroom management. Overall, teachers reported high levels of stress and burnout associated with their job. Teachers with high efficacy had lower burnout and reported higher ability to cope with their job. Experienced teachers had higher efficacy but also had higher burnout and were more likely to report having thoughts of leaving the field. Lastly, stress and burnout predicted intentions to leave the field above and beyond efficacy or coping. Qualitative data indicated that lack of administrative support, followed by being overworked, underpaid, and challenging student behaviors were some of the top reasons for those not returning to teaching. Teacher stress, burnout, and attrition impact student social, emotional and academic outcomes. Implications for practice and policy are discussed.