In the United States and within Colorado, the number of persons experiencing homelessness has risen, with over 600,000 counted on a single night in 2023. Limited data integration across healthcare and social services hinders understanding of how permanent supportive housing (PSH) affects health outcomes. Our study in partnership with healthcare experts, housing providers, and a community advisory panel aimed to integrate data from health records, the justice system, and housing case manager notes to create a multidimensional measure of PSH success. Metrics not only included housing retention but engagement in care, wellness, housing rule adherence, and overall success. The initial 608 records were reduced to an analytic sample of 180 due to data loss across systems. Findings highlighted case managers’ adaptability and the need for dynamic indicators of client progress. This study underscores the importance of a social-health information exchange and partnerships for improving access and understanding success in supportive housing.
This paper looks at the effect of culture of origin on immigrants’ preferences for redistribution. This study is motivated by rising policy charged discussion about cultural determinants of individual preferences and prior research by Luttmer and Singhal “Culture, Context, and the Taste for Redistribution” published in the American Economic Journal (2011). The previous study claims that immigrants keep their preferences for redistribution after immigration, and these preferences are culturally driven even when the comprehensive range of economic factors are controlled. However, the highly topical political debate forces us to ask the same question again and to re-check the robustness of association between preferences of immigrants and average preferences in their countries of origin. This paper extends both the temporal and geographical scope of the study and introduces non-economic parameters typical for immigrants into explanatory models. The main message of the paper is that immigrants experience the effect of culture of origin on their preferences, but the updated and extended data show that the size of the effect is generally half that found in previous studies. This research has both political and methodological relevance.
Transitioning from kindergartens to elementary schools marks a critical period for young children and children’s school readiness is a strong predictor of their future educational attainment. The purpose of this study was to examine the relations between family socioeconomic status (SES) and Chinese preschoolers’ cognitive and non-cognitive school readiness outcomes and to further explore the moderating role of parental involvement in these relations. A total of 311 five-six years old kindergarteners and their parents living in Shanghai, China participated in the study. Parents reported demographic information and their involvement in children’s education. Children’s school readiness was rated by their teachers based on daily observations. Findings of this study indicated that family SES was positively associated with children’s cognitive school readiness (i.e., communication and general knowledge and language and cognition) but not significantly related to non-cognitive school readiness (i.e., social competence and emotional maturity). Parental involvement moderated the relations between family SES and children’s cognitive and non-cognitive school readiness. In the context of low home-based parental involvement and home-school conferencing, family SES was related to children’s cognitive school readiness, while in the context of high home-based parental involvement and home-school conferencing, family SES was not associated with children’s cognitive readiness. Unexpectedly, family SES was negatively related to children’s social-emotional readiness outcomes when parents displayed high levels of home-based parental involvement. Implications for practice and suggestions for further research were also discussed.
Despite the Chinese government’s implementation of numerous policies aimed at promoting urbanization, the actual urbanization rate has not met expectations. Even when some rural migrants are presented with opportunities to convert tourban-hukoustatus, an increasing number of families opt to maintain adual-hukouarrangement (where one spouse holdsrural-hukouand the other holdsurban-hukou). This phenomenon has garnered significant attention; however, the impact of diverse access to urban welfare on migrants’hukouselection has been underexplored in existing research onhukouconversion. Access to urban welfare emerges as a critical factor influencinghukouselection decisions. This study constructs an analytical framework to examine thehukouarrangements ofdual-hukoufamilies, exploring the effects of various factors related to urban welfare acquisition on thehukouselection of rural migrants. Empirical results indicate that withindual-hukoufamilies, migrants withrural-hukoustatus can obtain urban welfare through family support or market purchases. Consequently, to maximize family benefits, they prefer to retain theirrural-hukoustatus rather than convert tourban-hukou. Conversely, possession of a qualification certificate from the host city negatively impactsrural-hukouretention. Additionally, rural migrants indual-hukoufamilies tend to favor cities with high-valuehukouand express a desire to convert to localhukoustatus. These findings offer robust insights for policymaking, demonstrating resilience against sample self-selection bias and reverse causality.
Flexible working arrangements have become increasingly common and are considered a means to better reconcile paid and unpaid work. Therefore, the use of such measures can determine how couples divide their household and childcare tasks. While currently these tasks are dominantly female connotated, an increase in flexible work arrangements may contribute to a more gender-egalitarian distribution of unpaid work. However, empirical evidence on this association is mixed, and it remains unclear to what extent it differs by gender. Using a sample of 3244 individuals in the German Family Panel of 2018/2019 who were cohabiting with an opposite-sex partner and by applying linear regression models, we tested several hypotheses derived from economic, gender, and time-availability approaches. We separately addressed the division of housework and childcare tasks related to three flexible work measures, namely home-office, schedule flexibility, and working-time autonomy. Contrary to our hypotheses, no flexibility measure seemed to be related to a higher share of household tasks. Rather, any significant association we identified was fully explained through gender: Women took on a larger share of any household task, irrespective of their work flexibility. Only the share of childcare performed seemed to differ by the use of schedule flexibility, as well as by gender. Whereas mothers’ contributions to childcare were larger when they used flexibility, those of fathers were smaller. We conclude that flexible working arrangements do not contribute to a more gender-egalitarian division of unpaid work per se, but the (gendered) motivation to use such flexibility may be decisive.
How do sociologists operationalize “romance,” specifically the seriousness or casualness of the romantic relationships of the participants they study? How do research participants themselves understand and define romantic connections in everyday life? Using the case of 80 South Asian Muslim Canadian interviewees and how they used relationship labels like “casual” and “serious” when describing their romantic experiences, this article problematizes the concept of a romantic partnership and bridges sociological conversations about emotions, dating, marriage, and larger discussions about religion, race, gender, and immigration in high-demand religious cultures. Contrary to popular definitions of casual and serious relationships, rather than on sexual intimacy, my participants defined the casualness or seriousness of their relationship based on the marriageability of their partner. Their assessment of a partner’s marriageability rested on the partner’s social compatibility and/or their emotional attachment with the partner. Factors indicating marriageability included race/ethnicity, religion, and socioeconomic status that many participants perceived to be in tension with emotions. On the one hand, emotional connections brought people from different races and faiths together, motivating participants to overcome external hurdles from family and internal biases. On the other hand, people ended relationships with out-group partners despite being in loving relationships for years because they deemed them to be socially incompatible for marriage. However, emotions are hard to control. Sometimes, the relationship deemed to be the most socially compatible was unsuccessful because of a lack of emotional connection. Instead, the relationship with an out-group partner initially deemed incompatible ended up being emotionally significant and meaningful.
Policy makers, scientists, non-governmental organizations, and practitioners are increasingly acknowledging the relevance of biodiversity and ecosystem services (ES) for achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. This is however influenced by the personal awareness and interests of stakeholders, which can lead to conflicts about ecosystem management and conservation priorities. In the Global South, where poverty and power asymmetries are more pronounced, inclusive approaches to decision making are crucial to achieve sustainable development “leaving no one behind.” We assessed awareness of different stakeholder groups in the Corumbataí watershed, a UNESCO Geoparks project, about the relevance of ES for their well-being (WB) to determine if the perceptions about their relevance differ among them. We found that stakeholders selected regulating and cultural services as the most relevant ES, while security and health emerged as the most relevant categories of WB. Meanwhile, we found lack of awareness about the relevance of some ES underpinning WB categories they highly valued, e.g., groundwater recharge or rain regulation and its relevance for potable water availability. Gender, education, and age had a significant effect on the valuation of ES and WB categories, with women linking provisioning ES to both security and basic material WB and men connecting provisioning services more often to security. Assessing stakeholders’ perceptions about the relevance of ES for their WB can shed light on personal socio-ecological relations. Tailored education programs could support sustainable development programs.
In today’s debate about a user oriented humanistic turn in the field of mental health care, the early Foucault is once again relevant. In his works from 1954 Foucault shows that the root of understanding mental phenomena is not to be found in universal medical concepts and methods, but in the reflection on lived experiences and in the human being itself. In accordance with contemporary social, community, and cultural psychologists, such as Brinkmann, Kinderman and Prilleltensky, Foucault is critical to the psychology’s medical foundations. Instead of focusing on medical and physiological matters he suggests that psychology, as a discipline, should be more user oriented, and focus more on the human being itself, and on social and cultural contexts.
Most job search intensity models assume uniform search effort across all potential wage offers. I depart from this conventional assumption by proposing that agents allocate wage-specific search intensity, strategically avoiding effort on low-paying, unacceptable jobs or high-paying, improbable ones. This alternative model generates wage distributions at acceptance that differ markedly from the truncated distributions typical of models with constant arrival rates for wage offers. I leverage these distinct empirical predictions to develop two new nonparametric tests, applied to NLSY97 data, both of which reject the hypothesis of constant search intensity across wages. Furthermore, I estimate the structural parameters identifiable in each model, revealing that wage-specific search leads to greater total search effort, faster transitions into the upper tail of the wage distribution, and ultimately higher accepted wages—more than a 25% increase following unemployment. For low wages, the classic random search model delivers a fair replication of the actual data, but for higher wages targeted search is better. Wage-specific search suggests that job seekers not only need to search more, but also search better. This insight has important implications for employment policy, particularly in promoting job search literacy among the unemployed.
This qualitative study aimed to establish aspects of humanistic therapy that young people (13–16 years old) perceived as helpful and hindering, and to test a novel method for identifying perceived processes of change. A “medium q” thematic analysis was conducted followed by a coding-based “process of change analysis.” Participants were 50 young people in London schools who experienced moderate or severe emotional symptoms and had participated in up to 10 sessions of a school-based humanistic intervention. Participants were predominantly female and ethnically heterogeneous. Therapist qualities most often perceived as helpful were affiliative in nature. Unhelpful therapist activities were silences and a lack of input. Young people described feeling free to talk and open up. Helpful outcomes included feeling unburdened, gaining insight, and improving relationships. “Getting things off their chest,” “Advice and guidance,” “Modeling relationships,” and “insights to behavior change” were identified as specific processes of change in over 50% of young people. Approximately one-third felt hindered by a lack of therapist input, silences, or not feeling able to open up or trust. These findings indicate the potential value of an active, “process guiding” stance in humanistic therapy. Our process of change analysis has potential for identifying perceived change mechanisms in therapy. This work was supported by the Economic and Social Research Council [grant reference ES/M011933/1]. Anonymized qualitative interview transcripts are available on request to the First Author/Chief Investigator. Quantitative, participant-level data for the ETHOS study (with data dictionary), and related documents (e.g., parental consent form), are available via the ReShare UK Data Service (reshare.ukdataservice.ac.uk/853764/). Access requires ReShare registration.
Research has shown that married individuals live longer lives than unmarried women and men. A smaller number of studies have included non-marital cohabitation and have found that their mortality falls between the married and other unmarried groups. There are indications that the cohabiting population is diverse in terms of mortality risk, yet very little is known about how the association is related to age and stages of the life course. Sweden is a forerunner in family trends, and this is the first study that examines cohabitation and mortality in a Swedish context. Using Swedish register data for the years 2012–2017, we investigated how different partnership statuses are related to mortality for men and women at different ages (N= 5,572,011). We also examine whether the association between cohabitation and mortality is similar after accounting for family-of-origin effects through the use of a sibling comparison design. Our findings confirmed the notion of cohabiters as a diverse group whose relative mortality risk differs depending on the timing of cohabitation. Never-married cohabiters had a mortality risk similar to married couples at younger ages and a gradually increased risk with age. Divorced and widowed cohabiters exhibited an age gradient in the opposite direction. Future research should consider how the context of cohabitation changes across the life course.
In 2021, during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Total Fertility Rate in Iceland rose unexpectedly from 1.79 to 1.90. The increased number of births followed an important reform in the Icelandic paid parental leave scheme, which included an expansion of the leave from 10 to 12 months. Analysis of data from Statistics Iceland and focus group interviews with parents who had a child in 2021 were used to explore if and how the parental leave reform and the societal changes related to the pandemic-shaped parents’ decision to have a child in 2021. As the rise in fertility was short-lived, the results indicate that the baby boom of 2021 can hardly be explained by the parental leave reform. Rather, at least for educated women, who already had children and were in a good financial state, it seems that the pandemic created a favourable atmosphere for having a child. Parents’ narratives from the focus group interviews suggest that the pandemic might have been a good time to start or add to the family because of the increased time spent at home and the limited involvement in social activities outside the home.
Although the correlates of loneliness among older adults are very well explored in developed countries, there has been far less quantitative research in developing country contexts. This study helps to redress this research lacuna by investigating the loneliness reports of older adults (> 59 years) in South Africa. The analysis focuses on the considerable variation by race in how adults grow old, including in their living arrangements and socio-economic status. Using national micro-data collected in five waves of the National Income Dynamics Study, the study shows that older white adults report significantly fewer episodes of loneliness than other older adults, although they are far more likely to live alone. The gap in loneliness is greatest between older white and older African adults (who are the most likely to live with others), and it persists in multivariate regressions that control for a range of other differences in their individual and household characteristics. One possible explanation for these persistent race differences, which requires further examination, is that they reflect the importance of cultural factors, which are not adequately modelled, and which influence expectations of social interaction.
This paper explores the connection between social policy and immigration law as one feature of migration governance to advance internal bordering and border internalization. It argues that responsibility for migration governance is being transferred: from immigration authorities and the broader field of immigration policy to social services and the broader field of social policy. This allows for the outsourcing of immigration control to “new” sectors of society. In a second step, immigration authorities borrow legitimacy from social services and related actors involved in assessing non-citizens, thus turning reports from one policy field to the service of assessments made in another. This work draws on empirical data collected from Swiss immigration authorities (Migrationsdienste) and social services (Sozialdienste) whose work concerns migrants in receipt of social assistance. In Switzerland, powerful stereotypes shape the legal residency rights of non-citizens by portraying them as undeserving of welfare, reinforcing a strict citizen vs. non-citizen divide. As I argue, the connections between “workfarist” policies that characterize the Swiss welfare state and restrictive immigration policies legitimate the withdrawal of residence rights from non-citizens rendered destitute. The transfer of responsibility and borrowing of legitimacy facilitated by this entwinement of social policy and immigration law entrench processes of internal bordering. With formerly less related policy fields now increasingly charged with immigration-related decision making, the existing bordering practices of immigration authorities are expanded to encompass new actors. This close entwinement of different policy fields is characteristic of how contemporary societies police and control non-citizens.
Migration studies have highlighted the crucial role of civil society organisations (CSOs) in the local politics of migration. Less explored is the impact of the material conditions under which CSOs operate. And yet CSOs delivering public services to migrant and racialised populations often rely on public funding which has been significantly restructured since neoliberal welfare reforms in many Western countries in the 1990s. This article examines how funding contexts shape the opportunities of CSOs to influence local policymaking on migration and migration-related change from a cross-country and cross-city comparative perspective. Based on the empirical analysis of four cities in France and Germany and a comprehensive dataset comprising interviews, observations and documents, we argue that funding contexts significantly impact on CSOs’ potential to shape local policymaking. They do so by enhancing and restricting (1) CSOs’ access to spaces of policymaking as well as (2) CSOs’ capacities for political engagement. We demonstrate the mediating importance of specific funding structures and politics at both national and local scales as well as the role of state-CSO relations in manifesting and reproducing these funding contexts.
IntroductionGlobally, the prevalence of undernutrition is highest in the sub-Saharan African region with over a third of the world’s stunted children residing in this region. Many studies have explored child nutrition in sub-Saharan Africa, but they often overlook the intricate nuances of maternal knowledge. We examined the association between maternal nutritional knowledge and childhood nutritional outcomes.MethodsThis was a secondary analysis utilizing data from the Demographic and Health Survey of eight sub-Saharan African countries that were conducted between 2019 and 2022, focusing on children aged 6 to 23 months. The study used latent class analysis to identify discrete patterns of nutrition and health-related knowledge and mixed-effects logistic regression to assess their association with childhood nutritional outcomes namely, stunting and wasting. Statistical significance was determined atp< 0.05.ResultsMost participants knew the importance of colostrum (76.8%) and continued breastfeeding (76.7%), as well as immunization (60.0%) and diarrhoea prevention and treatment strategies (65.1%). However, only 24.49% knew about family planning. Children of high knowledge group/class had a 17% lower risk of childhood stunting (crude model; COR = 0.83; 95%CI: 0.77, 0.90, adjusted model; AOR = 0.89; 95%CI: 0.82, 0.97) and a 22% lower risk of wasting (COR = 0.78; 95%CI: 0.69, 0.89, adjusted model; AOR = 0.84; 95%CI: 0.73, 0.96) compared to those from the low knowledge group/class.ConclusionThese results highlight the pivotal role of maternal knowledge in shaping children’s health outcomes and emphasize the urgent need for targeted interventions and comprehensive maternal education programs to address the identified knowledge gaps and improve child health outcomes.
This ethnographic study investigates the perceptions of place and migration aspirations among young migrants within the Malawian diaspora in Lydiate, an informal settlement in Zimbabwe. Unlike traditional conceptions of diaspora that emphasize long-term settlement and place attachment, this study introduces the concept of a ‘radical sense of place,’ where the settlement is viewed not as a permanent home but as a temporary staging ground for future aspirations. Through qualitative data collected between 2018 and 2020, including participant observations and in-depth interviews with young migrants aged 15 to 35, this research explores how these youths strategically navigate their socio-economic marginalization. The findings reveal that young migrants perceive their settlement as a launch pad to better opportunities in more affluent urban areas, driven by a combination of harsh living conditions and the allure of urban life. This perspective challenges existing migration theories by highlighting the temporary and strategic relationships with place among diaspora youths. The study also highlights the interplay between age, identity, and aspirations, showcasing the pivotal role these factors play in shaping the radical decisions of young migrants. While young migrants exhibit resilience in the migration process, they also face social exclusion, lack of social protection, and the risk of abuse and discrimination. The study advocates for policies tailored to address the specific conditions and vulnerabilities faced by youths in diaspora ethnic enclaves, promoting avenues for meaningful employment and advocating for youth migration based on informed choices rather than forced migration.
Authenticity, defined as the knowledge of one’s true self, living in accordance with one’s values and beliefs, and resistance to the influence of others, has gained increasing prominence within the realm of positive psychology. This paper presents the culmination of efforts to develop a Polish version of the Authenticity Scale (AS). The AS is a self-report instrument designed to examine three dimensions of authenticity: authentic living, accepting external influence, and self-alienation. To validate the psychometric properties of the Polish AS, a series of four studies were conducted, encompassing a total number of 1546 participants. The findings demonstrate the instrument’s high internal consistency (with Cronbach’s α ranging from .77 to .87), confirm the three-dimensional structure of authenticity (via confirmatory factor analysis), and provide evidence for measurement invariance across gender groups and under various testing conditions. Theoretical validity was established by investigating the relationships between the authenticity dimensions and a range of variables, including components of the PERMA model, psychological well-being, meaning in life, self-esteem, and personality traits. The observed associations align with theoretical expectations and corroborate the adaptive nature of authentic living and the maladaptive tendencies of accepting external influence and self-alienation. The obtained results collectively support that the psychometric properties of the Polish adaptation of the Authenticity Scale are comparable to those of the original version. It can therefore be concluded that the Polish adaptation of the AS is a reliable tool for measuring authenticity, which—once normalisation research has been conducted or local norms calculated—can be useful in the work of clinicians, psychological counsellors, and researchers.
Household consumption or income surveys do not typically cover refugee populations. In the rare cases where refugees are included, inconsistencies between different data sources could interfere with comparable poverty estimates. We test the performance of a recently developed cross-survey imputation method to estimate poverty for a sample of refugees in Colombia, combining household income surveys collected by the Government of Colombia and administrative (ProGres) data collected by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in 2019 and 2022. We find that certain variable transformation methods can help resolve these inconsistencies. Estimation results with our preferred variable standardization method are robust to different imputation methods, including the normal linear regression method, the empirical distribution of the errors method, and the probit and logit methods. Several common machine learning techniques generally perform worse than our proposed imputation methods. We also find that we can reasonably impute poverty rates using an older household income survey and a more recent ProGres dataset for most of the poverty lines. These results provide relevant inputs into designing better surveys and administrative datasets on refugees in various country settings.
The concept of transnational knowledge networks has entered the field of study of environmental mobility. Yet, how these networks play a role in adaptation to environmental change remains understudied. Power dynamics and familial ties impact the functioning of transnational networks and intricately shape responses to environmental challenges, with gender serving as a salient factor. This research aims to theorize and empirically study how gender matters for how men and women engage with environmental concerns within transnational spaces of Moroccan migrants living in Tenerife, the largest of the Canary Islands. This study employs visual mapping techniques to uncover gendered patterns and modalities of communication within transnational networks. Findings reveal significant gender disparities in how environmental challenges are discussed and addressed within Moroccan transnational networks. While women prioritize family welfare and employ cultural practices to tackle environmental issues, men focus more on economic implications. Women’s perspectives and voices are marginalized, reflecting societal gender norms and biases that prioritize men’s voices and expertise in economic matters. This ignorance hinders their participation and access to support within transnational networks, perpetuating gender disparities in engagement and decision-making.
Multiple studies link family conflict to self-harm; however, no research has explored whether family conflict influences adolescents’ likelihood of engaging in a relatively new and destructive behavior known as digital self-harm, or the practice of anonymously posting harmful information about oneself online. Grounded in Agnew’s general strain theory, this study examined the relationship between family conflict and digital self-harm using a sample of 9,819 adolescents from the 2019 Florida Youth Substance Abuse Survey. Logistic regression analyses revealed that, even after accounting for various potential confounding variables, family conflict was positively associated with an increased likelihood of engaging in digital self-harm. Additionally, results from an analysis of indirect effects revealed that this relationship was largely mediated by adolescents’ depressive symptoms. The study concludes with recommendations for reducing both family conflict and digital self-harm.
Despite the multidimensional nature of poverty, its temporal dimension remains understudied in Iran. This paper uses data from the Time Use Survey (2019–2020) representing urban areas of Iran to examine the prevalence and intensity of time poverty among adult men and women. The results indicate that 16.4% of adults aged 15–64 years are time-poor, with men more likely than women to experience time poverty. Gender emerges as a significant determinant, with women considerably more likely to be time-poor than men with similar characteristics. Women’s lower participation in paid work is a major gender disparity, and its elimination could significantly increase the time pressure on women. Unlike time poverty itself, few variables predict its intensity, suggesting general homogeneity regardless of the characteristics examined. Employment increases both the likelihood and intensity of time poverty for women. This finding has significant implications for Iran, where despite nearing the end of the demographic window of economic opportunity, female labor market participation remains low.
The Sasanian Empire (224–651 CE) has been given relatively little attention in research on climate-society interactions when compared to the neighboring Byzantine Empire, despite evidence of changing conditions and an agricultural economy that is theoretically vulnerable to droughts due to low annual precipitation. We review the available historical, archaeological, paleo-environmental, and paleo-climatic evidence to assess whether climatic conditions factored into periods of Sasanian growth and decline. We find evidence for drier conditions across Sasanian territories at the turn of the sixth century, a pattern that extends to the Aegean, Anatolia, and Central Asia. These same conditions contributed to a significant decline for the nearby Kingdom of Himyar but occurred alongside a period of expansion and intensification for the Sasanian Empire. We suggest that a combination of careful management of water infrastructure, including qanats, which can conserve water resources during dry periods, and land-use strategies that are both diverse and flexible, may have mitigated the worst impacts of this dry period. However, we note several weaknesses in the available data that still hinder confident interpretations of the potential impacts of climate change in the Sasanian Empire. Notably, there are gaps in the coverage of paleo-hydrological records and a complete lack of terrestrial paleo-temperature records in the region, as well as low resolution and high chronological uncertainties in the archaeological and paleo-environmental evidence.
Deforestation and dam building together with climate change along the Lancang/Mekong have upended centuries and even millennia of biocultural management. The river and the rainforests in this part of monsoon Asia provide the livelihood for over 70 million people in Yunnan and SE Asia and are among the most important rainforest cover and carbon sinks in the world after the Amazon basin. It is a major biodiversity hotspot. The loss of local knowledge has contributed to greatly the loss of healthy ecosystems. The paper considers not only this loss but also the ways in which indigenous communities and civil society organizations are pushing back against the overpowering profit motive of the “epistemic engine” of the capitalist nation-state system.
After the German reunification in 1990, East Germany transitioned from a centrally planned economic system to a market economy. To tackle surging unemployment, upskilling through adult education was deemed essential at the time. Besides substantial mandatory training programs provided by active labor market policies,Volkshochschulen(VHS) were the most important providers of voluntary adult education. Based on newly digitized data, we estimate how VHS courses affected unemployment in a county-level analysis of East Germany between 1991 and 2002. Our identification strategy employs the decentralized expansion of courses, which led to substantial, quasi-random variation in their regional supply. We do not find any significant effects of VHS courses on subsequent unemployment. Lacking labor demand and low market dynamics may have restricted the realization of education effects. Regional disparities support this notion: In counties bordering West Germany, courses reduced unemployment. Our results hint towards multiple mechanisms at play, as both work-related and recreational courses were found to be effective in border counties.
The current study aimed to better understand which psychological problems are most impairing, as measured by quality of life and perceived parental psychopathology associations among emerging adults. Participants included 602 college-attending emerging adults who were recruited through an online participant pool at a large Southern United States university. Participants completed measures about quality of life, parental psychological problems, and personal psychological problems. Results indicated that when compared to emerging adults not at-risk for psychological problems, emerging adults at-risk for anxiety problems reported lower psychological, social, and total quality of life and higher levels of parental psychopathology across all domains. Additionally, emerging adults at-risk for anxiety problems reported better physical quality of life than emerging adults at-risk for any other psychological problem and remarkably lower parental psychopathology than emerging adults at-risk for antisocial problems and autism problems. The current study identified the most impairing self-reported psychological problems in emerging adults by assessing quality of life differences.
A growing body of literature uses country-level indicators to examine the impact of immigrants’ source-country conditions on the home and work lives of immigrants after arrival. One measure that has attracted increased attention is gender inequality in immigrants’ countries of origin. However, little is known about the degree to which the transition from high to low gender inequality countries affects the development of connections with the receiving country and whether immigrant women and men are impacted differently. This article examines the association between source-country gender inequality and immigrants’ sense of belonging to Canada. Our regression analysis of data from the 2013 and 2020 General Social Surveys suggests a higher level of source-country gender inequality is associated with a stronger sense of belonging to Canada for both immigrant men and women. Despite concerns from some conservative critics that gender inequality in source countries hinders immigrant integration, the results show that immigrants from cultures different from Canada develop a strong sense of belonging to Canada. Our findings suggest that cultural distance does not necessarily have a negative impact on immigrant men’s and women’s self-perceived integration into their host country.
It has been well established that the effectiveness and quality of political representation is unequally distributed in Western democracies. Scholars have frequently warned about the rise of ‘diploma democracies’ and a ‘new gilded age’ in which political systems are skewed towards the interests of those with a higher socio-economic status. In this paper, we investigate one possible causal mechanism of this inequality: the greater ability of educated citizens to cast a ‘correct’ vote. If some citizens are not able to accurately identify the party or candidate that best represents their interests, electoral and political participation will not lead to full representation. On the basis of the American National Election Study and original experimental data, we provide evidence that citizens’ level of education has important repercussions for their capacity for correct voting. More educated voters have higher levels of political sophistication, and they are in turn more likely to cast a correct vote. As we find that both political sophistication and information processing capability help us to explain the effect of education on correct voting, we expect that this form of stratification will remain rather persistent.
Distrust is widely argued to stimulate support for political and institutional change. Yet, there is little agreement among scholars whether distrust pulls people towards rivaling decision-making models such as direct democracy, technocracy, and authoritarianism. This paper argues that political distrust is an unconditional push-factor away from the status quo (i.e., representative democracy), but that the appeal of any specific alternative decision-making models among distrusters is conditional on their political dispositions. This paper systematically tests rivaling theories on the micro-level relationship between political distrust and support for change, representative democracy, and alternative decision-making models. Crucially, we test to what extent the pull-factor of rivaling models is conditional on citizens’ political efficacy and populist leaning. Moreover, we separate the effects of structurally low trust from that of dynamically declining trust by estimating Random Effects Within Between (REWB) models on three-wave panel survey data across four European countries (the UK, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Portugal). Our findings confirm that distrust unconditionally pushes people away from the status quo, but does not unconditionally pull people towards any alternative model. Rather than technocracy (mixed effects) and authoritarianism (predominantly negative effects), we find that political distrust particularly stimulates support for direct democracy. This positive effect of political distrust on support for direct democracy is particularly strong among efficacious citizens and supporters of populist parties. This aligns with the idea of dissatisfied democrats, whose distrust drives their ambition for more direct influence.
Despite the importance of romantic relationships for psychological health, there is limited research exploring how communication about relationships unfolds in families during adolescence and emerging adulthood (beyond the narrower topic of sex). As such, the current research explored the nature of caregiver-child communication about relationships and assessed whether this communication is associated with young people’s psychological health. We hypothesized that young people will have fewer and lower quality conversations about relationships in comparison to other developmental goals but that communication quality would improve with age. We also hypothesized that the quality of relationships communication would predict psychological health as indexed by self-esteem and psychological distress. In a series of two survey studies, adolescents (n= 129) and emerging adults (n= 716) reported on the frequency and quality of communication about relationships (and other developmentally-relevant topics including education, career, race/ethnicity) with their primary female caregiver and reported on their own psychological health. A subset of Study 1 participants additionally completed a daily diary assessing the frequency with which they discussed these topics and/or reported on their psychological health a second time. Results showed that conversations about relationships generally occurred less frequently than other topics and were also seen as the lowest in quality across assessments, though quality did improve with age. Moreover, even when controlling for communication about other topics, the frequency and quality of relationships communication positively predicted aspects of psychological health. Results indicate that young people may benefit from interventions designed to improve family communication about relationships.
The term “complex needs” has been used to describe young people who have a range of multiple and co-occurring problems that can be caused by individual level (e.g., psychosocial needs) and broader social-economic factors (e.g., homelessness, child maltreatment, justice system involvement). Coordinating the multiple services required to support these young people and successfully engaging them in services can be challenging. The purpose of this study was to gain deeper insight into the barriers to, and strategies for, service engagement among young people who require support from multiple services. Interviews and focus groups (N = 12) were conducted with relevant government and non-government stakeholders in an Australian jurisdiction to obtain qualitative insights into barriers and strategies for effective service engagement. Thematic analysis identified 20 principal themes that were differentiated into two overarching categories relating to service engagement: 1) Barriers, and 2) Strategies, and across three levels: 1) Systems; 2) Services; and 3) Individuals. Many of the strategies to facilitate engagement were applicable across all three levels. For example, ‘flexibility’ was identified as a facilitator of service engagement from the individual practitioner level to broader service and system structures. This study highlights barriers that need to be overcome, and strategies that can be employed, to facilitate engagement between services and young people who have complex needs. There is a need to create a service environment that is adaptive to the needs of young people rather than one which requires these young people to adapt to any particular service.
Assessments of resilience and sustainability are increasingly important for mitigating the effects of climate change, especially in rural areas such as the Southern Great Plains (SGP) in the United States. While ecological and economic research on rural sustainability is necessary, we argue that a social approach is essential to understanding how to promote resilient futures. Social capital facilitates access to, and transference of resources individuals need to achieve individual and collective ends. Over the past three decades, research on social capital has advanced across multiple disciplines to address a variety of social phenomena, issues, and outcomes. Building on previous research in the SGP, we focus on community-level social capital through a qualitative content analysis of 65 key informant interviews across the three counties in Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Colorado. Findings suggest that while in-group social capital is strong, resistance to outsiders and government distrust create significant barriers to promoting more resilient communities. Our study contributes to a prolific body of literature on rural sustainability and disaster mitigation. It also develops important insights into the dynamic, contingent, and interdependent nature of social capital. We conclude with recommendations on how to promote community agency while cultivating collaborative relationships between rural communities and government institutions in the interest of rural resilience.
The COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges to college students, with students who are parents at risk for amplified difficulties due to the dual responsibilities of parenting and pursuing higher education, but there are few studies that compare the experiences of student parents with non-parenting college students. This study employed a quantitative, cross-sectional approach to compare the needs, concerns, and resources of student parents (n= 167) to those of non-parent students (n= 617) at a mid-sized public university in the Gulf South. Data were collected during the Spring 2021 semester using theHigher Education Student and Student Parent Survey(HESSPS). Overall, a greater proportion of student-parents reported resource awareness, receiving social support, and positive experiences with the pandemic compared to non-parent students; significantly more non-parent students reported financial insecurity, academic difficulties, psychosocial and emotional health issues, and negative pandemic-related experiences. However, when the two groups were divided by age (<25 vs >=25 years), older student parents retained the highest proportion reporting social support and positive pandemic experiences and also had lowest proportion reporting academic difficulties. In contrast, young student parents had the greatest proportion reporting academic difficulties and financial and housing insecurity. Recognizing the heterogeneity of student parents, including their strengths in times of crisis, is critical for addressing equity gaps in higher education and for informing targeted policies and resources so these under-recognized students can accomplish their educational and family goals.
This study investigates parental concerns about the safety of children en route to school in the Western Cape, South Africa, through a survey conducted across nineteen school locations in high- and low-pedestrian crash areas. The density of crash locations closely correlated with low- and higher-income areas. The research reveals a high level of concern among parents in both types of areas, with significantly greater worry prevalent in lower-income neighbourhoods. Although the mode of transportation varied between the two groups, both expressed concerns about their children’s journeys. Notably, these concerns extended beyond traffic safety to include personal security issues related to criminal activity in the neighbourhood. Compared to international studies, parents in this study were more worried about speeding and drunk drivers than general traffic conditions. The study also highlights a stark reality: many parents, especially in lower-income areas, are unable to change their children’s commuting conditions despite their high levels of concern, underscoring the need for targeted interventions. This research emphasises the importance of incorporating parental perspectives in developing strategies to enhance child pedestrian safety.
Over the past century, numerous studies have examined Jean Piaget’s relationship with psychoanalysis. Until the 1970s, they often emphasized the value of a rapprochement between Piaget and Freud and highlighted the use of Piaget’s ideas in therapeutic practice. Then from the 1980s onwards, several studies focused on the relationship between his work–seen as purely cognitive, to the exclusion of the social and the affective–and his conflicted relationship with his mother. Based on similar sources, particularly his autobiography, these studies led to a reductionist account of his work according to which intellectual content was determined as much by the conflictual relationship as by his alleged autism. The article begins by deconstructing these ideas, showing that in the 1920s Piaget gave an important place to affectivity and the role of the mother in development. It then analyses the Piaget’s family dynamics of the 1919–1920 period, focusing on the family system–Jean’s parents, sisters and brother-in-law–in its relationship to pathology, a dynamic reconstructed with the help of correspondences. The article presents a series of totally unknown episodes in Piaget’s life. It shows that this was an enmeshed family system Minuchin (Families and family therapy, 1974) in which members were both highly involved and dependent on the mother. Within it, Piaget was designated as atherapist, for both the mother and the system, thus reversing standard roles and the classic figure of the designated patient. This research strengthened the few works that have identified either Piaget’s position as a therapist or the importance of his ideas for psychotherapy.
The Ultra-Orthodox (Haredi) sector is religiously conservative, insular, strictly adheres to Judaism, and considers raising children a central value. This study broadens the research on this sector by examining how conservativeness, parental identity, and parenting behaviors predict parental well-being. Parenting behaviors were assessed by the Parenting Pentagon Model (PPM), which includes five constructs that provide a comprehensive picture of parenting:Partnership,Leadership,Love, Independence, andRules. Participants were 355 Haredi parents (279 mothers, 76 fathers), who completed questionnaires addressing primary study variables. The parents reported being more conservative than open, having a fairly strong parental identity, more optimal behaviors on the PPM, and fairly high levels of well-being. A regression analysis showed that having a child with a disability, conservativeness, parental identity, and the PPM all explained significant variance in parental well-being. A greater understanding of this sector can lend insight into other insular, conservative sectors around the world.
Ethnographic studies have attempted to uncover the various lived experiences of differentially vulnerable communities across populations and regions globally. To analyze emerging themes and draw new insights into differential vulnerability to climate change in caste-based South Asian societies, particularly in Nepal and India, we conducted a meta-ethnographic systematic review study. We systematically selected 17 articles, analyzed the data, and identified six themes from 14 sub-themes, linking them with caste-based differential vulnerability to climate change through relevant examples, immediate effects, and seven long-term impacts. Our insights into caste-based differential vulnerability align with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) vulnerability framework (exposure, sensitivity, adaptive capacity), and we present them diagrammatically to enhance clarity and accessibility. The review highlights the significant effects of the caste system on shaping climate change vulnerability in caste-based societies. We recommend conducting in-depth empirical research on caste-based disproportionate social vulnerability to climate change, taking our new synthesis to test it as a hypothesis.
I employ a conceptual synthesis that bridges Western and First Nations sciences in pursuit of a broader understanding of cultural burning as a multispecies practice in Australia. The concept of ‘re-storying’ diminishes nature/culture dualisms and creates space for the role of culture in understanding and shaping ecologies; the concept of ‘niche construction’ fosters attention to the ways in which humans co-construct landscapes with other organisms in ways that affect the communities doing the co-constructing. With this conceptual toolkit, I draw attention to the species that play important roles in cultural burning practices through story, ceremony, and their actions upon the landscape. Animals such as bandicoots, brush turkeys, and raptors have pronounced effects on landscapes, and these in turn alter and affect the ways in which First Nations peoples apply fire. These stories demonstrate the complex, relational, and multispecies nature of cultural burning and the need for broader, more nuanced approaches that allow people to burn for, and with, animals.
Global evidence indicates minimal connection between immigration and crime. Nordic research, however, has been generally carried out on individuals and shows that immigrants are over-represented in crime. This has led to claims that high crime rates are due to immigration. We directed our study towards these claims by analyzing immigrant population prevalence, defined as the percent of foreign-born individuals, and violent crime in Swedish municipalities between 2000 and 2020. Nearly all municipalities had higher violent crime rates in 2020 relative to 2000. To discern whether drastic increases in municipality-level crime rates could be connected to municipality-level immigrant population prevalence, a retrospective case–control design was used to select 20 municipalities with the highest increase in reported violent crime rates and 20 municipalities with the lowest increase in reported violent crime rates. Immigrant population prevalence had little association with high rates of reported violent crime. The average association between immigrant population prevalence and violent crime rates calculated from all municipalities was also weak and non-significant (p> 0.05). Municipalities with a high increase in crime tended to have more crime correlates than municipalities with a low increase in crime. However, more research is needed on the impact of migration in small towns, especially those that have experienced economic and social stagnation.
ObjectivesTo test the effect of local, industry-specific labour demand on employment and recidivism following a person’s release from a prison in Finland.MethodsThis study was an observational study based on administrative data. The data included all working-aged men (N= 33,270) released from prison between 2007 and 2018 in Finland. We analysed the industry of the employers descriptively and studied the effect of labour demand on employment and recidivism rates post-release with a linear probability model. Labour demand was measured by counting new employments that began in the first 30 days post-release in the region the subject resided in at the time of release. Employment and recidivism were analysed with a 6- and 12-month follow-up.ResultsOf the study population, 11.1% were employed and 44.7% recidivated in the first 6 months. We found the most common employers to be the construction and manufacturing industries along with temporary work agencies. Our models indicated that the low-skill labour demand in construction increased the likelihood of employment (β = 0.0108, se = 0.0026) but did not reduce the risk of recidivism (β = 0.0030, se = 0.0045).ConclusionsHigher labour demand may not lead to lower recidivism in all contexts. As the effect of labour demand may be driven by specific societal or labour market characteristics, further research should focus on identifying the characteristics that affect recidivism and post-prison employment. As this study may only be generalisable to the Finnish prison population, similar studies are needed from varied contexts.
The reason why people endorse belief in a just world (BJW), in which each person gets what he deserves and deserves what he gets, is mainly attributed to motivational processes. BJW is also an inter-individual difference, and cognitive preference for less reflective and more intuitive thinking may be a complementary explanation of why people endorse this explicit version of BJW. In a preregistered and highly powered study (N= 46,815), we investigated and showed for the first time a relationship between individuals’ scores on a cognitive performance task and BJW, when controlling for relevant demographics. Our result showed that individuals with a less reflective orientation were more likely to endorse explicit just world beliefs. This is consistent with previous studies based on cognitive reflection test showing that individuals with a lower preference for logical rationality endorsed simplifying worldviews. Our results illustrate that individual differences in cognitive style may produce preferences for specific justice beliefs.
Gender inequalities are pervasive across various life domains, yet research has often overlooked how people perceive that women are treated differently than men. To fill this gap, we developed and validated the 16-item multidimensional Social Treatment and Experiences of Women (STEW) scale across different samples of women and different cultural contexts, namely Italy and the UKN= 1,195). Using exploratory (Study 1,N =703) and confirmatory (Study 2,N =550; Study 3a,N =132; Study 4,N= 201; Study 5,N= 233) factor analysis, we identified four dimensions: workplace inequalities, domestic imbalance, harassment towards women, and social expectations. Studies 3a and 3b (N =96) demonstrated convergent, discriminant, and predictive validity of the STEW, linking the STEW’s subscales to group-based emotions, reported experiences of sexism, attitudes towards affirmative action, and attitudes towards women’s sexual freedom. Replicating the factor structure in the UK, Study 4 found the STEW explained unique variance in group-based emotions and intergroup attitudes beyond personal experiences of sexism. Last, Study 5 showed that the STEW explains unique variance in collective action intentions and feminist identification beyond people’s attitudes towards gender equality. Highlighting the importance of conceiving gender inequalities as a multifaceted issue, the STEW provides a robust tool for assessing perceptions of differential treatment of women across domains and can inform more comprehensive interventions promoting gender equality.
Smartphones can extend the reach of evidence-based gambling treatment services, yet the general acceptability of app-delivered gambling interventions remains unknown. This study examined the general acceptability and use of app-delivered gambling interventions, and predictors of both, among 173 Australian adults with a lifetime gambling problem (48.5% male, Mage= 46.4 years) recruited from an online panel. Overall, 55.5% of the sample had a positive attitude toward app-delivered gambling interventions, 8.1% had a neutral attitude, and 36.4% had a negative attitude. Furthermore, one in five participants (20.8%) reported using an app-delivered gambling intervention in their lifetime. Four dimensions of acceptability were examined, wherein 78.6% of participants endorsed confidence in the effectiveness of app-delivered gambling interventions and 66.5% perceived anonymity benefits, while 48.6% endorsed scepticism (e.g., potential to increase isolation) and 69.4% perceived technology-related threats (e.g., difficulty learning and applying app-based strategies). Positive predictors of acceptability and use included younger age, rural/regional residence, gambling expenditure, problem gambling severity, gambling harms, and use of professional support. Acceptability did not increase the likelihood of using app-delivered gambling interventions, however, which may suggest a translation gap. The findings support continued investment into the development and evaluation of app-delivered gambling interventions, with a focus on enhancing engagement and uptake. Uptake could be improved by promoting the effectiveness and anonymity of evidence-based app-delivered gambling interventions, particularly among receptive audiences (young people, rural/regional residents, those with greater problem gambling severity), while redressing scepticism and perceived technology-related threats among vulnerable subgroups (those with greater gambling expenditure and gambling-related harm).
Executive function skills are critical in early development, as they “form the foundation for children’s ability to self-regulate” (McLelland, et al., 2016, p. 242). Inhibitory control, one component of executive function, is the ability to suppress or inhibit responses to distractions when completing a task. The purpose of this study was to improve children’s inhibitory control in the classroom through ageappropriate games, which promote controlling emotions and remaining on task. Three target children were observed in the classroom they attended with their regular teacher. Baseline data revealed that the target children needed improvement on inhibitory control skills, which included controlling emotions and staying on task. The Inhibitory Control Intervention consisted of age-appropriate games (Uno, Perfection, Matching Cards, I Spy book) that promoted staying on task and controlling emotions independently and with small groups of peers. Data were collected using momentary time sampling for a ten minute period during free choice center time. When the Inhibitory Control Intervention was in place, there was an increase in both on task behavior and controlling emotions during free-choice center time. Providing opportunities for children to practice inhibitory control skills can be beneficial for increasing children’s self-regulation skills.
The incorporation of digital technologies in hotels worldwide is moving forward at the same pace as the recovery of the tourism sector itself following the COVID-19 pandemic. Researchers have looked at this topic from the perspective of suppliers and consumers, but little research has been carried out on hotels’ internal digitalisation processes and understanding their technological priorities to become more competitive. Atomization of hotel business structure and its characteristics and composition have traditionally hindered data collection. This research addresses this gap through close collaboration with the regional associative structure. The initial hypothesis is that digitization in Andalusian hotels flows at different speeds. The aim of the present study is to establish both the current state and the speed of digital transformation in hotels. To this end, there is an analysis of the degree of implementation of digital technologies in the hotel sector based on a case study of Andalusia (Spain). A mixed method approach is used, combining two focus groups that together contain 14 stakeholders, with 183 technological implementation surveys sent to hotels. This approach allows differentiation between the values of hotels specifically and those of accommodation as a whole, using two blocks of questions: technological solutions and tools; and infrastructures, integrations and data analysis. The results allow the validation of the initial hypothesis and show digital transition at two different speeds. The solutions and tools implemented, the technological priorities of future implementation and the use of digital enablers each display very disparate realities. Accelerating the rhythm of digitalisation is a great challenge for all hotels, whatever their category. The study contributes an original theoretical-practical model, whose method can be applied to other tourist destinations, regardless of their nationality. It enables comparisons and measurements, addressing both the typology of technological tools and solutions, and digitalisation issues.
This paper offers a comprehensive analysis of the statistical disclosure limitation (SDL) methodologies employed by the U.S. Census Bureau on the 2010 and 2020 Decennial Census releases under the perspective of the disclosure risk of the most vulnerable respondents. We first review the SDL methodology used up to the Decennial Census 2010, which was based on targeted swapping. Second, we examine recently reported reconstruction and reidentification results on the Decennial Census 2010 outputs, which form the foundation for the U.S. Census Bureau’s decision to switch to a differentially private (DP) method for the 2020 release. Third, we examine the actual privacy and data accuracy achieved by the DP method and compare with the privacy and accuracy offered by the formerly employed swapping mechanism. We conclude that the DP method is not an adequate solution to protect the typically sparse tables present in the Decennial Censuses because it does not offer meaningful privacy guarantees in general, it poorly protects the privacy of the most vulnerable respondents in particular, and it significantly degrades the quality of the released data. We also argue that the claimed disclosure risks of previous Census releases were overstated because of a flawed reidentification procedure. Therefore, the U.S. Census Bureau’s decision to change the SDL methodology to a DP-based one for the 2020 release was not only unwarranted, but it also reduced privacy and data quality compared to former releases.
This volume makes a notable contribution with a deep and extensive analysis to achieve the movement from Yoga Philosophy to Yoga Psychology for the promotion of integration with Modern Psychology, a task hitherto unrealized despite the burgeoning attention to Yoga. This commentary is constrained by my own limited knowledge of traditional Indian philosophy in making a thorough examination of Paranjpe’s contribution beyond attention to selected concepts and sporadic illustrations from the original volume. Yoga practice is, Paranjpe informs us, just the tip of an immense consolidation of knowledge, deep intellectual thought and theoretical consideration about the embodied sense of self, health and well-being. Spirituality is foundational to the theory and practice of yoga. This volume has immense potential relevance for contemporary psychological theory and practice in an attempt to highlight embodied and spiritual considerations of human existence. With some notable exceptions, modern psychology has adopted the positivistic paradigm that systematically rejects traditional knowledge systems. Through intercultural translation (a concept I borrow from Santos,2018), Paranjpe successfully transcends this divide and provides detailed possibilities about why and how this knowledge can relate to, inform and expand the science of human being and becoming that is inclusive, built for mutuality rather than domination; travelling on the path of dialogue between diverse knowledge systems.
The COVID-19 pandemic disproportionately affected those with caregiving responsibilities and its impacts continue. Through the fall of 2022, the circulation of RSV, influenza, and COVID-19 – a “tripledemic” – placed parents and caregivers in precarious situations with few COVID-19 supports available and less flexibility in work arrangements, potentially increasing family-to-work conflict (FWC). This mixed-methods study incorporates online survey data from the January 2023 Alberta Viewpoint Survey (N= 1196) and interview data collected from May-August 2023 (N= 23) to study the strategies families and caregivers used during the tripledemic to manage FWC in a time of high uncertainty. We find that parents, especially mothers, were most likely to miss work for extended periods, leading to a greater potential for FWC among these groups. Parents’ ability to manage FWC depended on the resources available to them, which were highly unequal. Those who were able to take advantage of workplace, relationship, and network resources were better able to limit FWC during these uncertain times. Findings contribute to larger understandings of family-to-work conflict by highlighting how parents attempt to manage uncertainty and the inequalities in available resources.
This article aims to reconceptualize the replication crisis as not merely a problem of flawed methods, lack of scientific rigor, or questionable researcher conduct, but as a fundamentally epistemological and philosophical issue. While improved methodologies and scientific practices are necessary, they must be considered through the lens of the underlying epistemologies. Toward this end, a new paradigm for psychological research and practice, grounded in second-order cybernetics and transactional causality, is proposed as instrumental. Second-order cybernetics, as introduced by Heinz von Foerster, challenges traditional scientific methodologies that assume a strict separation between the observer and the observed. The core idea is that the observer, through the very act of observing, inevitably becomes part of the system they study, leading to a shift from linear to transactional causality. This epistemological shift has profound implications for the research practice and the responsibility of the psychology practitioner. Foerster’s ethical imperative –act always so as to increase the number of choices– combined with the aesthetic imperative –If you desire to see,learn how to act– illuminates an alternative methodological landscape for the clinical practice. The replication crisis in psychology is examined in light of these theoretical shifts, allowing for a new constructive vision which integrates basic research with applied psychological practice. Second-order cybernetics encourages a participatory approach to research, emphasizing the catalyzing role of the observing practitioner. The article concludes by advocating for an epistemological superposition, where psychologists navigate multiple perspectives to enhance the integrity and applicability of their findings in the real world.
Several countries, including Canada and Australia, have developed public health-based lower-risk gambling limits to differentiate lower-risk from higher-risk gambling. This study aimed to identify a preliminary set of lower-risk gambling limits (gambling frequency, duration, expenditure, expenditure as a proportion of personal net income, and diversity), and investigate if gambling types are linked to additional harms, in a Swedish context. The study involved secondary analyses of two online survey studies using the Gambling Disorder Identification Test (GDIT). Receiver operating curve analyses were conducted in relation to both + 1 and + 2 gambling-related harms in a sample of 705 past-year gamblers. Potential lower-risk limits ranges identified were: gambling frequency of “2–3 times a week” to “4 or more times a week” (8–16 times monthly); gambling duration of 6 to 15 h per month; gambling expenditure of 2,000 SEK (approximately $USD190) per month; gambling expenditure as a proportion of personal net income of 5%; and gambling diversity of only one problematic gambling type. Gambling on slots and sports betting were associated with gambling-related harms. The lower-risk limits in the current study were higher than in previous studies, which may be explained by the large proportion of support- or treatment-seeking gamblers with high rates of problem gambling and problematic online gambling in the study sample. An international consensus-based framework on gambling consumption is warranted, with lower-risk limits validated in future empirical studies using larger datasets collected from the Swedish general population.
PurposePatient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) are widely used in clinical trials, epidemiological research, quality of life (QOL) studies, routine clinical care, and medical surveillance. The Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) is a system of reliable and standardized measures of PROs developed with Item Response Theory (IRT) using latent scores. Power estimation is critical to clinical trials and research designs. However, in clinical trials with PROs as endpoints, observed scores are often used to calculate power rather than latent scores.MethodsIn this paper, we conducted a series of simulations to compare the power obtained with IRT latent scores, including Bayesian IRT, Frequentist IRT, and observed scores, focusing on small sample size common in pilot studies and Phase I/II trials. Taking the PROMIS depression measures as an example, we simulated data and estimated power for two-armed clinical trials manipulating the following factors: sample size, effect size, and number of items. We also examined how misspecification of effect size affected power estimation.ResultsOur results showed that the Bayesian IRT, which incorporated prior information into latent score estimation, yielded the highest power, especially when sample size was small. The effect of misspecification diminished as sample size increased.ConclusionFor power estimation in two-armed clinical trials with standardized PRO endpoints, if a medium effect size or larger is expected, we recommend BIRT simulation with well-grounded informative priors and a total sample size of at least 40.
PurposePrior evidence suggests that patients’ Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) worsens after COVID-19. This study aimed to investigate HRQoL in Italian patients post-hospitalization for COVID-19, focusing on changes in physical and mental HRQoL over time since COVID-19 diagnosis.MethodsA cohort of patients hospitalized for COVID-19 at Molinette Hospital in Turin, Italy, was contacted post-discharge to assess HRQoL using the SF-36 questionnaire. Patients completed the questionnaire only once at a different time since diagnosis. This design allowed for the analysis of responses up to three years after diagnosis. Measured scores were compared with normative data from the Italian population using z-scores. HRQoL differences by gender, comorbidities, and self-perception of health status before and after COVID-19 were tested. The effect of time since diagnosis on physical (PCS) and mental (MCS) SF-36 scores was analysed using multiple linear models and stratified analyses.ResultsA total of 601 patients completed the questionnaire. HRQoL was significantly lower compared to the normative Italian population. Men and individuals without comorbidities had better HRQoL, and self-perceptions of health status before and after COVID-19 influenced HRQoL. Time since diagnosis was associated with improved PCS, but MCS remained unaffected. Mental health declined in patients using anxiolytics post-COVID-19, and increasing age negatively affected physical health.ConclusionOur findings highlight the impact of time since diagnosis on HRQoL post-COVID-19 in an Italian population and suggest the need for further investigation into the pandemic’s effects on HRQoL. Physicians should implement measures to improve mental HRQoL post-COVID-19.
Despite ample research on the association between working time mismatch and work-life outcomes from an individual perspective, little has explored the dyadic correlation from a couple-level perspective among working parents. Using fixed effects models and longitudinal dyadic data from the Household, Income, and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) survey, this study examines the influence of working time mismatch of husbands and wives on their own and each other’s work-life outcomes (e.g., work-life enrichment, work-life conflict), thereby shedding light on crossover effects in work-life dynamics among working parents. The study reveals that overemployment is significantly associated with worse work-life outcomes for both mothers and fathers. Additionally, noticeable gender differences in spousal effects are observed: mothers’ overemployment significantly worsens their husbands’ work-life outcomes, and their underemployment notably improves it. In contrast, fathers’ working time mismatch does not significantly affect their wives’ work-life outcomes. Furthermore, the findings indicate that the negative effects of overemployment on both personal and spousal work-life outcomes persist, even for those with high job autonomy. Overall, this study underscores the dyadic association between couples’ working time mismatch and work-life outcomes among working parents, delineating an asymmetric dynamic. These findings suggest that policies aimed at reducing overemployment, addressing gender-specific challenges, and supporting flexible work arrangements are crucial for improving employee well-being in dual-earner households.
Parental Reflective Functioning is considered a critical variable, both for the exercise of parenthood and for child development. For some years now, there has been a need for sufficiently sensitive and effective instruments to explore and evaluate Parental Reflective Functioning. This preliminary study presents the construction and validation of a short version of theParent Development Interview-Revised, which we callParent Development Interview-Brief.The main objective of this abbreviation is to maintain the semi-structured nature of the interview while decreasing the time needed to administer it. A multicenter and cross-sectional study with a normative sample of 60 mothers of children under five years of age with normotypical development is presented. To analyze the criterion validity of theParent Development Interview-Brief, participants completed theCuestionario de Apego Adulto [Adult Attachment Questionnaire]and theParenting Stress Index-Short Form.The psychometric qualities of the new instrument are discussed, as well as the need for sufficiently sensitive, reliable, and effective tools to tap Parental Reflective Functioning for use in clinical contexts and research.
Healthcare professionals play a crucial role in healthcare systems, but their demanding work significantly impacts their mental and physical health, affecting patient care. This study investigates the interplay of work environment, doctor-patient relationships, media influence, and self-reported health among healthcare professionals. This study employed a stratified sampling approach to survey 8386 healthcare professionals from 40 hospitals across 8 provinces in China. Gaussian Graphical Modeling was used to analyze factors impacting well-being, including physical and mental health, work environment, doctor-patient relationship, and media influence. Network visualization identified key nodes, and the accuracy and stability of the network were assessed. The work environment emerged as a critical bridging factor in the interconnected network. Strong correlations were observed within the work environment cluster, covering aspects related to career, financial, and working conditions. Mental health issues like anxiety and depression also demonstrated moderate co-occurrence. Centrality analysis further identified key nodes associated with job satisfaction, physical fatigue, and mental health symptoms. Work environment plays a central factor interconnecting healthcare professionals' mental health, physical health, doctor-patient relationships, and media influence. Key insights include strong correlations within the work environment cluster, co-occurrence of mental health issues, and the close relationship between physical and psychological well-being. Addressing workplace stressors, fostering positive doctor-patient relationships, and mitigating negative media portrayals can contribute to a healthier environment for healthcare professionals. Comprehensive programs addressing both mental and physical health needs, including mental health screenings, stress management techniques, and promoting physical activity, are crucial.
Amid societal transformation and digitalization, the issue of short video addiction among the elderly has emerged as a critical social concern. Previous studies have shown that parental phubbing is positively correlated with adolescent short video addiction. However, little is known about the mediating and moderating mechanisms behind the relationship between adult offspring’s phubbing behavior and parental short video addiction. This study, grounded in interpersonal acceptance-rejection theory, investigates the direct relationship between adult offspring’s phubbing behavior and short video addiction in the elderly. It proposes a model where loneliness mediates and neuroticism moderates this relationship. A survey encompassing 684 elderly individuals (aged 55 to 83) from Sichuan-Chongqing region of China was conducted, assessing phubbing behaviors, short video addiction, loneliness, and neuroticism. The findings reveal that adult offspring’s phubbing positively predicts short video addiction in the elderly, with loneliness partially mediating this relationship. Furthermore, the level of neuroticism in the elderly modulates the link between loneliness and addiction. Specifically, individuals with high neuroticism exhibit greater addiction under low loneliness, while no significant addiction differences are observed under high loneliness. These results affirm the connection between offspring phubbing and elderly short video addiction, offering insights into problematic smartphone use among the elderly from an intergenerational perspective and guiding future prevention and intervention strategies for short video addiction.
Many studies indicate that Total fertility rates (TFR(t)) are negatively correlated with life expectancies at birth (e0(t)). We found that complete random-combinations of TFR(t) and e0(t) would result in about 24% and 22.2% of improbable combinations in probabilistic population projections (PPPs) for developing and developed countries, respectively, namely, high (or low) TFR(t) combined with high (or low) female e0(t). Thus, we propose optimized random-combinations of probabilistically projected TFR(t) and e0(t) for PPPs, and we use different strategies of the optimized randomcombinations across developing and developed countries due to different empirical patterns observed. As illustrative applications, we conducted PPPs for 11 developing countries (Brazil, China, Indonesia, Madagascar, Pakistan, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Viet Nam), and 6 developed countries (Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States), using our proposed optimized random-combinations of probabilistically projected TFR(t) and e0(t). We found that optimized random-combinations largely reduce percentages of improbable combinations of TFR(t) and e0(t) and substantially narrow the prediction intervals width compared to complete random-combinations in both developing countries and developed countries. This is important in a real-world practical sense since it would substantially improve the accuracy of PPPs, which are useful for socioeconomic planning. The present study is part of our ongoing research program on probabilistic households and living arrangement projections (PHPs) that builds upon and is consistent with the UNPD PPPs. The PHPs are useful for various studies of healthy aging and sustainable development.
In Brazil, a developing country with rich biological and cultural diversity, several species of plants and animals are used to treat diseases. We conducted a systematic review on the use of medicinal animals and plants and identify whether there are correlations between sociodemographic variables and the use of animal species and medicinal plants. We used the databases Web of Science, Science Direct, Scielo, Scopus, and PubMed to obtain 29,147 titles, including 41 studies of 47 communities between 2006 and 2015. We used the human development index, sanitary sewage, number of health establishments, and number of residents per municipality to investigate potential correlations with the number of animal and plant species (native and exotic for both taxa). The most frequently cited of the 147 families of plants identified as used in traditional medicine were: Lamiaceae, Asteraceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae, and Rutaceae. The most frequently cited of the 68 families of animals mentioned were: Phasianidae, Teiidae, Bovidae, Iguanidae and Apidae. Among sociodemographic variables, only the number of residents per household showed a significant correlation with exotic animal species, although other variables showed relationship trends. Traditional medicine in Brazil plays an important role in knowledge about these natural resources, enabling alternatives to mitigate potentially negative impacts that local sociodemographic factors have on the health of human communities.
The present study aims to investigate the impacts of father-child communication on the mental health of left-behind children (LBC), and the role of maternal migration and mother-child communication in this correlations. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Anhui, China, from April 2018 to March 2019. Among 5253 valid responses, 1599 LBC who self-reported that their fathers were migrants at the time of the survey were included in the present study. There are three major findings: first, maternal migration can negatively influence LBC’s father-child communication frequency and quality; second, both higher father-child communication frequency and quality can promote LBC’s mental health; third, mother-child communication can enhance the protective effects of father-child communication quality on LBC’s mental health. Thus, we propose that, to promote the mental health of children with both parents migrating, it is of great importance for mothers and fathers to realize that direct father-child communication matters. And more direct father-child communication should be encouraged for children with both parents migrating.
This article contributes to the existing literature on attractiveness and impact tools, by developing and validating a tool for measuring territorial capital based on the beliefs and perceptions of target populations, in this case young people. The tool was developed from 26 items selected through 5 non-directive interviews and 20 semi-structured interviews, enriched by a literature review. The results of psychometric tests (exploratory factor analysis and confirmatory factor analysis), based on a survey of 400 young people living in rural area of Cameroon, led to the selection of a factor structure with 18 items corresponding to 6 components of perceived territorial capital. These are social and cultural capital, anthropic capital, institutional capital, environmental capital, cognitive capital, and economic capital. This research can be a valuable aid in enhancing the effectiveness of policies aimed at improving rural attractiveness.
This short historical note dates the earliest ethnomedical reference to koro back to the 1840s (about a half-century earlier than universally presumed), and the earliest ethnopsychiatric reference to 1883 (over a decade earlier than universally presumed)
The brightness and distribution of anthropogenic illumination at night can indirectly reveal the economic prosperity and development level in human settlement areas. Nighttime light (NTL) remote sensing can be used for statistics, intuitively and timely grasping the dynamic development of the region, without being limited by actual statistical time and administrative regions. Regional socio-economic development index (RDI) comprehensively considering society, economy, healthcare, education, and transportation factors was constructed in this paper. On this basis, the LJ-1 01 remote sensing image with high spatial resolution was used to explore its potential in estimating the RDI for fine-grained scale (at county and township levels). Subsequently, Zipf’s law was conducted to evaluate balance and distribution of regional development at the county and township levels for Yunnan Province, China in 2018.The results indicate that at the county-level spatial scale, the RDI estimation model constructed using the NTL data in this paper demonstrates relatively high stability for both the third-degree polynomial function (R2= 0.7775,RMSE= 0.0677) and the power function (R2= 0.762,RMSE= 0.0731). Then at the township-level spatial scale, the power function estimation performs the best, with anR2reaching 0.6664. The power function is optimal for evaluating socio-economic development at fine-grained spatial scales. Furthermore, Yunnan Province exhibits relatively balanced development at the county level with a better performance of Zip’s value (q= 0.7851), nevertheless unbalanced development at the township level (q= 1.2421). Regions with imbalanced socio-economic development (lower RDI and highqvalues) are mainly located in areas with complex terrain and inconvenient transportation. This study can enrich the understanding of socio-economic regional development, narrowing regional disparities and achieving high-quality and sustainable development for future growth.
Disasters create and intensify stress for communities, with many factors contributing to how that stress results in mental health outcomes. Guided by the stress process model, this article presents findings from a qualitative investigation of the meaning of stress among community leaders in the context of the water crisis in Flint, Michigan. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with six community leaders in Flint and analyzed using grounded theory techniques. Secondary stressors such as necessary changes to everyday routines, being discredited by government officials, and perceptions of a lack of government action and accountability were perceived to impact the community’s mental health, with potentially more influence than the impact of the primary stressor of contaminated water. Findings indicate that both stressors and coping resources evolve with profound intrapersonal impact, such that proposed social coping resources become stressors when they do not meet individual or community needs or expectations.
Depression is among the most prevalent mental health issues affecting adolescents. Parents may play an important role in identifying warning signs of depression and providing support. However, little is known about how parents understand and respond to the early signs of adolescent depression, or their depression literacy (DL). The factors associated with their DL are also unclear. This questionnaire-based study aimed to explore DL in a sample of primary caregivers (n= 321,Mage= 46.2 years, 76% female) of 12–18-year-old adolescents living in the Republic of Ireland, through responses to a vignette depicting a character displaying symptoms of depression. Two-thirds (66.7%) attributed the character’s symptoms to depression, while 92.2% believed the character needed help. One third (34.6%) believed asking the adolescent about suicide would be harmful. Only parent empathy significantly predicted labelling the symptoms as ‘depression’. Contrary to hypotheses, there were no significant differences identified based on parents’ gender, their child’s gender, or their child’s age. To our knowledge, this study is the first to explore the link between empathy and DL in parents, and may inform targeted interventions to improve DL.
With corporate litigation has gradually become one of the remarkable corporate risks and development constraints for Chinese firms, there is an increasing need for an empirical study that examine the impact of corporate litigation on CEO accountability. To address this need, this study uses bivariate logit estimations for panel data of 3746 Chinese publicly listed firms during 2009–2020 to demonstrate that corporate litigation is significantly associated with increased CEO turnover and compensation reduction. It further investigates the baseline effects across firm performance, pay disparity and ownership structure which present stronger effects for poor performers and private-owned firms, yet high pay disparity correlates with a greater likelihood of compensation reduction whereas low pay disparity is associated with a higher likelihood of CEO turnover. Moreover, while securities lawsuits increase CEO turnover probability, non-securities lawsuits could lead to either CEO turnover or CEO pay cut. This study is the first to investigate the impact of corporate litigation on CEO accountability in China. The evidence supports the idea that top executives should be held accountable when firms encounter corporate litigation.
The Family First Prevention Services Act requires youth’s placement in residential care to be clinically appropriate, time-limited, and only when youth’s needs cannot be met in family-like settings in foster care. State child welfare agencies can benefit from upstream, empirical decision support to preempt youth’s placement disruption, coordinate proactive placement stabilization services, prevent unnecessary step-up to residential care, and improve outcomes for the youth. This statewide case study explores the potential benefit to child welfare decision support for placement stabilization and diversion from residential care, by comparing predictive machine learning (ML) models with conventional regression models. We analyzed child welfare spells of 12,621 youth in one large Midwestern state between January 2017 and January 2020. Caseworkers could refer youth to a placement stabilization and preservation program. To predict youth’s monthly program need in the next 6 months, we developed and validated a wide grid of ML models—random forest, regularized logistic regression, decision tree, dummy classifier—and a conventional unregularized logistic regression model, using literature-informed predictors from child welfare administrative data. We retrained, retested, and compared all models over time using temporal hold-out sets. Based on anticipated program capacity, model evaluation focused on accuracy in identifying the 100 highest-need youth, fairness, and equity of resource allocation. Random forest models produced the best performance with a precision (positive predictive value) 10 times greater than baseline precision. Common important predictors across models included youth’s age, history of placement changes, and emotional/behavioral needs. We discuss potential applications of ML to support preventive child welfare decisions, adapt to policy changes, and allocate limited resources.
Following the field of insertion into the labor market, we tested the classic hypothesis of the strength of weak ties in the three largest cities in the Southeast Region of Brazil, with a focus on communities of religious worship. A survey was carried out in 2021 with 900 questionnaires divided equally among the three cities, weighted considering the size of the population and the distribution of religious affiliation. We investigated: (1) whether the strength of ties leverages the labor insertion of adults; (2) whether religious cult communities operate as mechanisms for the circulation of opportunities in the labor market. The data were analyzed with Heckman’s two-stage correction models to mitigate possible censoring biases. Controlling by seniority in the position and participation of three sampled cities in gross national product, inter alia, the results show that strong ties, as predicted by the strength of ties theory, are associated with lower earnings. At the same time, obtaining a paid job through another cult member is negatively associated with earnings. However, when testing our main hypothesis, we found that in the three largest cities in the Southeast Region of Brazil the religious embeddedness, composed of strong ties, high worship attendance and religious motivations coming from maternal ties, operate plausibly in labor market as favorable screen mechanism associated with higher earnings.
Teacher-child shared-book reading is an everyday activity that promotes preschoolers’ oral language and reading development. Previous studies have investigated various facets of teachers’ questioning techniques. Little research, however, has focused on text-based questions (TQ) and life-experience-based questions (LQ) and how they are associated with children’s responsiveness. Furthermore, teachers’ questioning in the Mandarin Chinese context remains underexplored. This study examines how text-based questions and life-experience based questions influenced teacher-child talk during two shared-book reading activities. The participants included 88 children and 15 teachers who were randomly paired with 5 to 7 children for one-on-one shared book reading sessions on different themes, totaling 88 dyads. All the sessions were videotaped and transcribed. We coded teachers’ questions by type and content based on level of cognitive demand, and the form of response elicited from the children. The results indicate that life-experience based questions significantly, positively predicted children’s verbal response, when controlling for the variables of children’s Expressive Vocabulary Test scores, age, quantity of teachers’ questions, and book themes. Conversely, text-based questions negatively predicted children’s verbal responses. Open questions (rather than closed questions) were associated with increased verbal response from the children. These findings suggest that teachers could increase the effectiveness of shared-book reading and preschoolers’ engagement in discussions by incorporating more open-ended, life-experience based questions.
Parental bonding is defined as the affectionate tie a parent feels towards their infant. These feelings generally arise prenatally and increase in intensity over the course of pregnancy, both in mothers and in fathers. Bonding is fundamental for positive parenting behaviors and optimal child development. Few quantitative studies systematically examined what factors contribute to optimal bonding in fathers during pregnancy. The aim of the present study was to examine whether a variety of risk factors (symptoms of depression and anxiety, stress, and repetitive negative thinking) and resilience factors (self-compassion and trait mindfulness facets) were associated with prenatal paternal bonding and to explore potential mechanisms. In total, 66 expectant fathers with an average age of 33.7 years completed online questionnaires during the second or third trimester of pregnancy to assess the variables of interest. Analyses demonstrated that more symptoms of depression and anxiety and elevated levels of stress were associated with poorer bonding. In addition, less repetitive negative thinking, and more self-compassion and non-judging of inner experience were indirectly related to higher levels of paternal bonding through lower levels of stress. Findings suggest that expectant fathers who suffer from psychological distress, have more repetitive, negative, or intrusive thoughts, and tend to be more judgmental and self-critical may be at risk for suboptimal prenatal bonding. Providing adequate support for fathers at risk, perhaps in the form of mindfulness-based interventions, may be essential in order to cope with the challenges of new fatherhood and facilitate the process of bonding with the unborn child.
Process-based consent conceives of sexual consent as a process whereby individuals are continuously considering and have concern for their sexual partner’s willingness to continue engaging in sexual behavior without coercion. The current study used cross-sectional survey data and hierarchical linear regression to examine the independent and interactive effects of sex-related alcohol use attitudes, hostility toward women, and peer support for abuse on college men’s process-based consent (N= 463;Mage = 19; 93% heterosexual; 64% White, non-Hispanic). Findings revealed significant main effects of all three primary study variables on process-based consent beliefs and behaviors while controlling for fraternity membership, relationship status, and sexual history. A significant three-way interaction indicated that permissive sex-related alcohol use attitudes may inhibit process-based consent among college men with higher levels of hostility toward women who also believe their peers hold rape-supportive attitudes. These findings indicate that education around consent is necessary but may not be sufficient for preventing sexual violence. Interventions developed with and delivered by peer leaders that challenge harmful peer group norms about sex-related alcohol use and the mistreatment of women may create a social environment with more favorable conditions for changing individual college men’s beliefs and behaviors.
Research regarding workers’ well-being over time during COVID-19 has primarily used variable-centered approaches (e.g., ANOVA) to explore changes in negative well-being. However, variable-centered approaches provide insufficient information on the different well-being experiences that diverse workers may have experienced during COVID-19. Furthermore, researchers have understudied positive well-being in workers’ general lives and work during COVID-19. We used latent trajectory analysis, a person-centered analysis, to explore diverse well-being trajectories Canadian workers experienced during the first few months of COVID-19 across distress, flourishing, presenteeism, and thriving at work measures. We hypothesized that: H1) Intragroup differences would be present on each well-being indicator at study onset; H2) Different longitudinal trajectories would emerge for each well-being indicator (i.e., some workers’ scores would get better, some would get worse, and some would remain the same); and H3) Factors at different ecological levels (self, social, workplace, pandemic) would predict membership to the different trajectories. Canadian workers (N= 648) were surveyed March 20-27th, April 3rd-10th, and May 20-27th of 2020. Depending on the well-being indicator, and supporting H1, three to five well-being trajectories were identified. Providing some support for H2, distress and presenteeism trajectories improved over time or stayed stagnant; flourishing and thriving at work trajectories worsened or stayed stagnant. Providing some support for H3, self- (gender, age, disability status, trait resilience), social- (family functioning), workplace- (employment status, financial strain, sense of job security), and pandemic-related (perceived vulnerability to COVID-19) factors significantly predicted well-being trajectory membership. Recommendations for diverse stakeholders (e.g., employers, mental health organizations) are discussed.
This study explored students’ prosocial efficacy and reading outcomes in a culturally relevant summer reading program for underrepresented students. From a positive developmental approach, the reading program focuses on topics rooted in multicultural education, with books organized according to themes such as making a difference for oneself, one’s family, the community, the country, and the world. In the mixed-method study, we analyzed the results of students’ surveys and reading tests (n= 87) and interviews with two teachers and a program coordinator. Students’ initial prosocial efficacy was positively related to reading test scores at the end of the intervention; the positive linking between the two variables was more remarkable in the younger children group and with female students. The supplementary findings from the interview analysis of adult participants (teachers and staff) indicate that underrepresented students from culturally relevant education are more likely to experience a higher sense of belonging and show greater reading engagement related to various social issues. This study’s findings provide valuable insights into what strategies of the SEL approach should be considered to support the social-emotional and academic growth of underrepresented students in future education.
In this study, we explore the relationship between town size and subjective well-being (SWB) in Latin America. We utilize data from theLatinobarómetrosurvey from 2005 to 2015, employing multilevel modeling to analyze individual responses to life satisfaction as an indicator of SWB. We refine the town size categories provided in theLatinobarómetroby cross-referencing the geographic information with the United Nations Demographic Yearbook, one of our main contributions, leaving us with more refined town size categories than previous research. Given previous theories, we also explore how education moderates the town size-SWB relationship. Our findings reveal that individuals in towns with populations between 10,000 and 500,000 report lower life satisfaction compared to those in smaller or larger towns. Controlling for national macroeconomic conditions reverses the positive association between SWB and living in a very large city. Furthermore, we find some support for the notion that highly-educated individuals are more satisfied than the low-educated in large cities. This study comprehensively underscores the importance of refining town size data and suggests avenues for future research to deepen collective understanding of the ‘geography of happiness’ in Latin America.
This study details the methodology of a case study conducted with children aged 6–7 on COVID-19, emphasizing their important roles as co-researchers. During the study, children’s competencies were highlighted, and their voices were listened to with minimal adult interference. The research was conducted using the research with-children method, and 14 first-grade students from a private primary school in Istanbul, Turkey, actively contributed. Children participated in the research as researchers through their drawings, photographs, and individual and group interviews. The research process revealed that when children choose their research topics and create their questions, they enthusiastically engage and take ownership of their learning, fostering leadership and active participation. Research involving children should not be viewed merely as asking questions through adults. Using participant-friendly methods can enhance the enjoyment and meaning of the study for everyone involved.
In recent years, a small number of studies have emphasized that subjective well-being of individuals depends not only on income but also consumption and wealth. However, only a few have examined the influence of all three variables simultaneously. Empirical studies have also analyzed the role of self-centered and community-centered inequalities but the inclusion of both measures in the same specification is scarce. In a departure from much of the existing literature, this paper analyzes concurrently the influence of all three economic well-being indicators and both types of inequalities on subjective well-being. We find that absolute levels of income, consumption and wealth all have a significant positive effect that remains robust even after the inclusion of self-centered and community-centered inequalities in the regression equations. The evidence indicates that both types of inequalities are important considerations for subjective well-being, but with different influences. Self-centered inequality measured using reference group average has a positive signaling effect, while inequality defined by the position of an individual within the distribution of the relevant economic well-being indicator has a negative comparison effect. Whereas community-centered inequality in income has a positive signaling effect, consumption and wealth inequalities have a negative comparison effect.
States, NGOs, and civil society organizations pursue complementary pathways and community sponsorship as an innovative solution to dwindling refugee resettlement numbers, restrictive asylum policies, and hostility to the reception of migrants. Emerging models tend to be top-down, designed by national governments, and implemented by regional and local NGO partners. The Humanitarian Corridors project, however, represents a unique counterexample. From the bottom-up, faith-based, non-state groups designed Humanitarian Corridors, mobilized resources, and negotiated with national governments for permission to create a new pathway to protection for forced migrants to apply for asylum on EU territory. Through a case study of Humanitarian Corridors in Italy and Belgium, established in 2015 and 2017, respectively, this article analyzes how this complementary pathway emerged. Drawing from the migration governance, negotiation, and resettlement literature, this article foregrounds the efforts of the faith-based groups to engage with national political decision-makers; examines the negotiations over the legal, financial, operational, and political issues key to creating Humanitarian Corridors; and offers explanations as to how and why an agreement was reached. Based on 35 in-depth, semi-structured interviews conducted with faith-based groups and key political decision-makers directly involved in the negotiations, this article fills empirical gaps in our understanding of civil society, specifically faith-based, groups as agents driving the design and implementation of complementary pathways through direct negotiation with national governments.
Human attitudes towards species and attributes of wildlife contribute to support for conservation. However, there is limited information on how perceptions of conservation as a concept and process influence attitudes towards endangered species conservation. Furthermore, the question ofwhosociety attributes as being responsible for the conservation of endangered species still looms. We address how perceptions towards wildlife and endangered species conservation predict ascriptions of responsibility for conservation through a survey of 1,049 residents of Arkansas, USA, about their attitudes towards and understandings of wildlife and endangered species conservation, their perceptions of and experiences with wildlife agencies, and their beliefs about the responsibilities various interested parties bear with regards to conserving endangered species. Respondents held generally positive attitudes towards wildlife conservation and endangered species conservation, as well as government wildlife agencies (US Fish and Wildlife Service and Arkansas Game and Fish Commission). Respondents perceived all interested parties (i.e., all Americans, all residents of Arkansas, licensed hunters/anglers in Arkansas, Arkansas landowners with endangered species on their land, and nongovernmental conservation organizations) as at least somewhat responsible for endangered species conservation in Arkansas. Ascriptions of responsibility to interested parties were often positively predicted by variables related to the importance of wildlife to ecosystem health and conservation costs. Our findings illustrate the perceived value of endangered species as a public resource, suggesting support for conservation efforts and their funding that has implications across the United States.
This article explores the embodied dimension of authoring life trajectories for individuals who have undergone heart transplantation. Confronting the radical otherness of existential finitude can create a rich context for examining the relationships between authorship, corporeality, and creative processes. By integrating Merleau-Ponty’s phenomenology of the body with Susanne Langer’s theory of affective semiosis and presentational signs, this work aims to foster a productive dialogue between these perspectives, grounded in Semiotic Cultural Psychology, which meta-theoretically synthesizes a diverse range of knowledge on the transformative interaction between individuals and culture. The article presents three participants’ cases, selected for their ideographic expressiveness, as empirical evidence that both enlivens and enriches this study’s theoretical and epistemological foundations. The fragments of participants’ elaborations were derived from individual interviews conducted at the IMIP heart transplant clinic between 2022 and 2023. IMIP is a university hospital located in Recife. The interviewees were adults who had undergone transplantation at least one year prior. The discussion of the reports highlights three interpretative axes: (a) embodied ambiguities and tensions experienced; (b) living metaphors and potential presentational signs regarding life trajectories; (c) ways of referencing the future and temporality of experiences felt intensely in the present and their methods of reconstructing the past. The interpretative analysis of participants’ metaphors aims to shed light on the role of corporeality in the construction of meaning and, consequently, in the creative perspective of life and the sense of authorship when facing the alterity, in this case, specifically of illness and consecutive heart transplantation. This article seeks to contribute to studying affective semiosis and corporeality in Cultural Psychology by highlighting its hermeneutic relevance as a critical feature of the human cultural construction of the self, others, and the world.
A major focus in pastoralism studies has been on the socially porous or open-access nature of pastoral tenure systems that allow herd movements to respond to shifting availabilities of water and pasture without social constraints. We address the important question of whether herd movements in socially porous tenure regimes are influenced by the social identities of encampment host and visitor, reflecting other needs of mobile pastoralism requiring social cooperation. We assessed pastoral tenure characteristics and the social identities of encampment hosts and visitors at 1014 mapped encampment points in southeastern Chad. We found that under a socially porous tenure regime, visitation is biased toward co-membership of Arab clans. Informants point to the importance of social connections at encampments that facilitate actions to maintain resource access and reduce security risks. Together, these findings support multi-level institutional hybrid structures often found in customary pastoral organization as an important component in transhumance governance institutions.
A major focus in pastoralism studies has been on the socially porous or open-access nature of pastoral tenure systems that allow herd movements to respond to shifting availabilities of water and pasture without social constraints. We address the important question of whether herd movements in socially porous tenure regimes are influenced by the social identities of encampment host and visitor, reflecting other needs of mobile pastoralism requiring social cooperation. We assessed pastoral tenure characteristics and the social identities of encampment hosts and visitors at 1014 mapped encampment points in southeastern Chad. We found that under a socially porous tenure regime, visitation is biased toward co-membership of Arab clans. Informants point to the importance of social connections at encampments that facilitate actions to maintain resource access and reduce security risks. Together, these findings support multi-level institutional hybrid structures often found in customary pastoral organization as an important component in transhumance governance institutions.
This article explores the embodied dimension of authoring life trajectories for individuals who have undergone heart transplantation. Confronting the radical otherness of existential finitude can create a rich context for examining the relationships between authorship, corporeality, and creative processes. By integrating Merleau-Ponty’s phenomenology of the body with Susanne Langer’s theory of affective semiosis and presentational signs, this work aims to foster a productive dialogue between these perspectives, grounded in Semiotic Cultural Psychology, which meta-theoretically synthesizes a diverse range of knowledge on the transformative interaction between individuals and culture. The article presents three participants’ cases, selected for their ideographic expressiveness, as empirical evidence that both enlivens and enriches this study’s theoretical and epistemological foundations. The fragments of participants’ elaborations were derived from individual interviews conducted at the IMIP heart transplant clinic between 2022 and 2023. IMIP is a university hospital located in Recife. The interviewees were adults who had undergone transplantation at least one year prior. The discussion of the reports highlights three interpretative axes: (a) embodied ambiguities and tensions experienced; (b) living metaphors and potential presentational signs regarding life trajectories; (c) ways of referencing the future and temporality of experiences felt intensely in the present and their methods of reconstructing the past. The interpretative analysis of participants’ metaphors aims to shed light on the role of corporeality in the construction of meaning and, consequently, in the creative perspective of life and the sense of authorship when facing the alterity, in this case, specifically of illness and consecutive heart transplantation. This article seeks to contribute to studying affective semiosis and corporeality in Cultural Psychology by highlighting its hermeneutic relevance as a critical feature of the human cultural construction of the self, others, and the world.
This article describes the findings of a study that explored potential factors that influence the pass rate for those taking marriage and family therapy (MFT) licensing exams, both the national and California exams. An online, national survey was conducted to determine factors associated with passing the MFT licensing exams. The survey included measures of test anxiety, coping strategies, perceived stress, and experience of discrimination. The demographic results included patterns of racial and age disparities similar to those reported by the Association of Social Work Boards (2022), especially for Black respondents. Specific and readily implemented recommendations for making the current exams more equitable include (a) changing the phrasing of questions, (b) clarifying and reducing the scope of the content, (c) reducing the number of questions during the 4-hour period, and (d) ensuring adequate accommodations for disabilities.
The paper explores the relative roles of men’s and women’s sex composition preferences for women’s desire to stop childbearing in developing countries. The analysis covers 45 countries, using Demographic and Health Survey couples datasets from the years 2010 to 2021. Probabilities of women’s desire to stop childbearing are considered when the sex composition of children matches the ideals of both the woman and her partner, of the woman or her partner only, and of neither of them. Models with country fixed effects are estimated for two pooled samples, one including couples from Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), where sex composition of children is rarely linked to fertility, and the other one including couples from all other regions. The analysis has shown that in case men and women disagreed on whether current sex composition of children matched their ideals, women’s unmatched preferences were more strongly related to their desires to have one more child, both in and outside SSA. In the non-SSA countries, agreement of both spouses in their dissatisfaction with sex composition of children additionally raised the probability of women’s desire for the next child. However, men’s unmatched fertility preferences played no role in women’s fertility desires in SSA. Both the priority of women’s sex composition ideal for children and the importance of agreement between spouses are not expected in the context of family patriarchy. The results suggest that developing countries are not in a sharp contrast on roles of men and women in taking fertility decisions, at least in what concerns sex composition of children.
Various life activities, such as sleep, physical activity (PA), screen use, and learning, are closely related to the mental health and subjective well-being (SWB) of the old adults. Previous studies have focused on a single life activity and used flawed statistical methods, which lead to divergent results, as co-dependency between activities were neglected. This study aimed to explore the relationship between daily activity time and depression and SWB in the old adult group from the perspective of time composition. In this study, we collected data on the sleep, moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA), light PA (LPA), screen use, and learning times of 1,738 old adults from 28 provinces in China. Analyses were performed using a compositional data analysis (CoDA) and isotemporal substitution model (ISM). The study results show that, considering changes in time spent on other activities, learning and LPA were positively associated with SWB and negatively associated with depression. In contrast, MVPA time was negatively associated with SWB and positively associated with depression. Screen use was not associated with SWB but positively associated with depression, and sleep was negatively associated with SWB but had no correlation with depression. The ISM showed that the most effective way to improve SWB and reduce depression is to reduce time spent on MVPA and increase time for learning or LPA.This study was the first to analyze life activities from the perspective of time composition (how to change life activities’ time allocation) to improve well-being and reduce depression among Chinese old adults and provide some practical life advice.
The COVID-19 pandemic disproportionally affected parents with young children whose incomes are below the federal poverty threshold. However, studies examining life changes related to parents’ mental well-being due to pandemic effects are limited. In addition, given the racial disparities in mental health established in prior literature, clarifying the role of race in the relationships between life changes and parents’ mental well-being may help identify culturally responsive interventions that support racially/ethnically diverse families in crisis. Therefore, using a cross-sectional survey, this descriptive and exploratory study examined the impact of COVID-19 on the life changes of 408 English-speaking parents of preschool children whose incomes were below the federal poverty threshold. Half of the parents indicated that the pandemic had a negative impact on their life, including loss of employment, financial difficulty, difficulty accessing food, and challenges with finding childcare. While some parents reported feeling closer to their children, the majority felt more stressed, anxious, and depressed after the pandemic started. Not surprisingly, physical activity and better parent-child relationships were associated with reduced levels of stress and depression in parents in addition to access to childcare support. Interestingly, the negative impact of the pandemic was more correlated with White parents’ stress, anxiety, and depression than Black parents. During the post-pandemic phase, providing parental support to improve family cohesion and interactions is promising in minimizing stress, anxiety, and depression. Results from this study should be interpreted with caution due to the nature of the cross-sectional design and use of self-report data from parents.
The article explores the sociology of the family in Italy, examining its contribution to the public debate and its role in understanding the major transformations of the family. The focus is on a few key issues, including secularization and the crisis of religious marriage, the reduction in the number of children, separations and divorces, changing couple lifestyles and gender roles, socialization within multigenerational families, new biographical paths, reconciling family and work, migrant families, the aging population process, and family care tasks. The sociology of the family has seen significant transformation since the 1970s, often with contrasting sociological paradigms. While from different perspectives, the empirical research conducted by sociologists of the family has made it possible to understand families’ specific resources in Italy, as well as their needs, on both a material and a relational level. Particular attention has been paid to the tasks of socio-education of new generations and the care of fragile and elderly members. Italian sociologists have contributed to make evident the post-modern dialectic between the rights of individuals, women and men, and the rights of families that can promote a sense of belonging, solidarity, and common good. In this sense, sociologists have played an important role in giving concrete shape to interventions to monitor families’ transformations and needs (such as the National Family Observatory and the ISTAT multi-purpose surveys) and to support families (the National Plan for Families and, recently, the Family Act). Finally, the article sheds light on open issues on which the work of family sociologists is mostly focused today, with special attention to the future of the family and its role in the development of society.
This article explores the role of constructive anger in motivating and sustaining climate action. It considers relevant research in climate psychology with special attention to the dynamic between climate-related anger, action, and hope. The psychological research is then applied to a reconstruction of the concept of anger and hope in philosophical and theological approaches. Developing the concept of constructive anger, this article suggests that such constructive anger can be a factor in moving through apathy, fear, and depression and mobilizing toward collective climate action. Climate-related anger can be relieved through collective forms of climate action and the sense of collective efficacy that can emerge in becoming active. These can become a means to generating resistant, active, constructive forms of hope that can be distinguished from deceptive forms of hope.
Recreational spaces, such as local parks, are important public spaces for the community to engage in various activities. With the global ageing population, the concept of multigenerational recreational spaces has become popular in recent years with the aim to design active spaces to cater for all age groups, including older people. However, designing multigenerational spaces that enable safe usage by older people can be challenging due to the competing interests and needs of different age groups. This paper is a reflective narrative describing four case studies of multigenerational outdoor spaces in Melbourne, Australia with the inclusion of age-friendly equipment and analysing parks layout and design using aerial imagery data. Factors impacting safe usage of the space by older people were identified and discussed. The main challenges identified in the recreational case study areas included: proximity of the seniors’ exercise area relative to children’s play-spaces, accessibility, layout of the area, and surrounding features which can pose potential safety risks for older people or be a deterrent for visiting the parks. The information described in this paper provides practical learnings relating to park layout, proximity of different spaces, and strategies that may be required to be implemented to facilitate safe usage of the space by older people for better multigenerational design. A national recreational age-friendly policy is also needed to provide overarching guidelines to assist local governments in the design and delivery of inclusive multigenerational recreational spaces.
Loneliness is a common feeling often framed in negative terms. It can take several forms, including social, emotional, and existential loneliness, or through the concept of solitude, which is the desire to be alone. This qualitative study explores these types of loneliness among Swedish parents who regret having children. Our analysis of 29 interviews shows that loneliness is intertwined with regretting parenthood. Participants perceived that parental regret was unconventional, socially taboo, and unspeakable, which resulted in feelings of loneliness, shame, and guilt. They also reported that healthcare professionals, friends, and family rarely acknowledge parental feelings of regret and loneliness. Since loneliness is associated with the potential for mental health issues, it is important to build support structures for parents. In Sweden, the welfare state relies on healthcare professionals (such as nurses, midwives, and psychologists) to support parents. There is hence a need to create better support structures for parents dealing with regret and loneliness, including specialized training for healthcare professionals who work with these vulnerable groups.
Severity of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is associated with increased relationship distress and decreased relationship satisfaction. The loved ones of individuals with OCD often engage in family accommodation (FA) behaviors that serve the same function as compulsive behavior engaged in by the individual with OCD. The current study aims to expand the literature by examining target variables from the perspective of the individual with OCD. Participants included 139 adults with self-reported OCD who were in a romantic relationship. A treatment and non-treatment seeking sample was recruited in the US through clinics and clinicians specializing in OCD treatment. Results indicated the following: (1) a significant positive association between OCD symptom severity and FA, (2) a significant negative association between OCD symptom severity and relationship satisfaction, and (3) an interaction between FA and OCD symptom severity when predicting relationship satisfaction such that FA moderates the negative association between OCD and relationship satisfaction. At high levels of OCD symptom severity, FA was found to be negatively associated with relationship satisfaction; however, at low levels of OCD symptom severity, FA was positively associated with relationship satisfaction. Findings suggest the importance of addressing family accommodation in treatment of individuals with OCD, especially at higher levels of severity.
This study examined the predictors of financial assets (savings and retirement assets) at early midlife in a sample of 1,092 individuals (93.7% Black American) who grew up in low-income neighborhoods. Data were drawn from the Chicago Longitudinal Study, which has tracked participants from early childhood to midlife and consists of participant, parent, teacher surveys, and administrative records. The main outcomes were savings in 2019 dollars (log) and savings in the top quartile of the study sample, both self-reported at age 35–37. Hierarchical linear and binary logistic regression analyses identified many significant (p < .05 or p < .01) predictors of assets, including: Involvement in child welfare system by age 5 (b = − 1.55), Child-Parent Center preschool participation (b = 0.77), early math achievement (b = 0.05), socio-emotional adjustment (0.18), grade retention (b = − 1.14), school quality (b = 1.50), and juvenile arrest (b = − 2.17). The strongest alterable predictors in the full model were involvement in child welfare system, socio-emotional adjustment, grade retention, school quality, and juvenile arrest. The full model also indicated that males had greater savings and Black participants fewer savings. Parent expectations and involvement as well as school quality also predicted top quartile savings status. Implications for future research and practice are discussed. The contribution of school experiences in early and middle childhood suggests greater investments in programs that promote socio-emotional learning and academic success.
This article contends that Western iterations of sovereignty and its apparatuses produce, in part, souls and selves that have contributed to destructive, depersonalizing relations between human beings, other species, and the Earth. Given this, it is necessary to reimagine the notion of “soul” in relation to the idea of anarchy with the aim of creating more life-enhancing and inclusive eco-social-political relations. The underlying premise of this article is that anarchic souls are an existential reality that, in the West, have mostly been hidden, denied, or suppressed as a result of persons internalizing the philosophical and theological ideas, beliefs, and values associated with varied apparatuses of domination.
Positive paternal involvement during early childhood is important for fostering healthy development. However, mental health conditions, particularly depression, can significantly limit a father's ability to engage constructively. This study explored whether religiosity can act as a resource for fathers, potentially mitigating the adverse effects of depression on their ability to engage in their child’s life. Analyzing survey data from 1147 fathers with children aged two to eight, the study investigated the how religiosity and depression interact across four domains of paternal involvement: engagement, warmth, harsh punishment, and positive control. Hierarchical regression analyses revealed that fathers with higher religiosity scores exhibited more warmth, greater engagement, and higher levels of both harsh punishment and positive control techniques. Fathers with more depression symptoms were associated with more frequent harsh punishment behaviors and lower reports of warmth compared to fathers with less depression symptoms. Notably, a significant interaction effect between depression and religiosity was identified, indicating that fathers with high levels of both depressive symptoms and religiosity were at the greatest risk of engaging in harsh punishment behaviors. These findings suggest that while religiosity may support positive parenting behaviors, it may also intensify the use of harsh punishment among fathers struggling with depression. This highlights the need for targeted interventions to help fathers manage their depression and adopt positive parenting practices.
This study empirically investigated the mechanisms underlying work-to-family conflict and family-to-work conflict’s effect on second-child fertility intention by focusing on parental burnout and grandparent support. A sample of 1072 Chinese respondents who had already had one child were surveyed. The results of the two-wave longitudinal study showed that both work-to-family conflict and family-to-work conflict exerted a significant negative effect on second-child fertility intention. Mediation path analysis revealed that both independent variables had significant positive effects on parental burnout, while parental burnout exhibited significant negative effects on the dependent variable. Subsequently, our study confirmed that parental burnout served as a mediating variable between work-to-family conflict, family-to-work conflict, and second-child fertility intention. Furthermore, grandparent support moderated only the direct positive effect of work-to-family conflict on parental burnout and the indirect effect of work-to-family conflict on second-child fertility intention via parental burnout. Thus, the indirect effect of work-to-family conflict on second-child fertility intention is weakened when grandparent support is high. The study offers implications that mitigating the negative effects of family-to-work conflict on second-child fertility intention require support not only from the micro-ecosystem of the family, but also from the meso- and macro-ecosystems, such as organizations and society.
BackgroundAortopexy is a procedure to reduce pressure on the trachea in children with severe tracheomalacia. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has not been studied in children who have undergone aortopexy; we aimed to explore parents’ perceptions of their child’s HRQoL before and after aortopexy.MethodsParents of children < 18 years who underwent aortopexy at a quaternary specialist centre were purposively sampled and invited to participate in a semi-structured interview. Data were analysed using reflective thematic and content analysis.ResultsEight interviews (23–56 min) were completed with parents whose children were aged 1.9–12.1 years. HRQoL is explored through themes: a challenging diagnosis, lifechanging, and an understanding of limitations. Parents struggled to obtain a diagnosis of tracheomalacia while their child experienced serious symptoms. Aortopexy was seen as life-saving and allowed a return to family life. Airway safety, having their health and achieving a better quality of life were important outcomes of the procedure.ConclusionQuality of life following aortopexy was perceived to be greatly improved. Children still struggled in aspects of their life, however families worked within their child’s limitations, appreciating the life-saving nature of the intervention, and accepting the complexities of their child’s comorbidities. Holistic interventions are important for those at risk of poor HRQoL outcomes.
In this paper, I share insights from ongoing ethnographic fieldwork among adult Danes who identify as having Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) but do not meet the clinical standards and have yet to receive a diagnosis. These individuals are particularly relevant to the ongoing debates about under- and overdiagnosis of ADHD, as their claims to the diagnosis influence and mirror societal perceptions of what is considered normal and what is seen as a condition. Despite their symptoms not strictly meeting diagnostic criteria, thus risking overdiagnosis and associated psychiatric labeling, they perceive themselves as distinct from ‘normal’ people. Through a critical anthropological lens, I argue that medicalizing variations in human personality represents a contemporary societal epistemic error, drawing on Gregory Bateson’s work. I highlight the dynamics of diagnosis versus notions of normality in diagnosing and self-diagnosing ADHD. Understanding these dynamics is crucial for addressing concerns of overdiagnosis as well as underdiagnosis and misdiagnosis. By illuminating the complexities of diagnostic processes and their societal implications, I aim to contribute to a richer understanding of mental health discourse and practice.
Parenting is a product of complex, interactive, and interwoven factors, which are affected by a variety of characteristics, including parent characteristics and the family environment. Such characteristics, including marital dissatisfaction and poor mental health, could place infants at an increased risk for affect regulation difficulties. The current longitudinal study extended previous research by examining how multiple factors of the parenting environment are associated with infant affect regulation with mothers and fathers. Families (n= 89, primarily White) from the Southeastern United States were assessed at 4 and 8 months of age. Parent mental health (anxiety and depression symptoms, well-being) and marital satisfaction were measured by questionnaires when infants were 4 months old. Infant affect regulation was measured via infant affect observational ratings during a face-to-face play task at 4 and 8 months of age. Mothers, who were higher in well-being, had infants lower in negative affect. Infants, whose fathers were low in social anxiety and had higher marital satisfaction, had decreased levels of negative affect. Findings provide target areas for promoting infant affect regulation, such as parent marital satisfaction and parent mental health.
Sociodemographic disadvantage is a stressor related with unsupportive parenting practices, but little is known about the process by which it may undermine early parental emotion socialization. In the current study, we examined (1) the direct association between sociodemographic risk and supportive emotion socialization and (2) possible indirect effects via psychological distress and mother-oriented cry processing (i.e., negative cognitions about crying) in a short-term 3-wave longitudinal study that followed a stratified sample of 259 first-time mothers from pregnancy through 14-months postpartum. Sociodemographic risk included mothers’ age, education, and income reported by the expectant mothers prenatally. Psychological distress was assessed prior to the 6-month laboratory visit using mothers’ reports on depressive symptoms, difficulty regulating emotions, and trait positive and negative emotions. During the 6-month laboratory visit, mother-oriented cry processing was assessed using a video-recall procedure. Supportive emotion socialization at 14 months was assessed based on observer-rated maternal sensitivity during two distress eliciting tasks and maternal reports. Consistent with prediction, the first indirect pathway from higher sociodemographic disadvantage to lower supportive emotional socialization through higher mother-oriented cry processing was statistically significant, however the second indirect pathway from higher sociodemographic disadvantage to higher psychological distress to higher mother-oriented cry processing to lower supportive emotion socialization was not. Over and above these indirect effects, higher sociodemographic disadvantage was directly associated with lower supportive emotion socialization. Psychological distress was not significantly directly associated with emotion socialization. These findings highlight the importance of policies and interventions that provide financial assistance to the mothers experiencing sociodemographic disadvantage and target their psychological wellbeing.
This study investigates the prevalence, stability, and associated factors of internalizing symptoms in children and adolescents within a clinical setting. The sample included 299 patients aged 3–17 years from a Child and Adolescent Mental Health outpatient clinic, followed over one year. Internalizing symptoms were assessed using the parent-rated version of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), completed at baseline and at one-year follow-up. Stability was evaluated using prospective consistency, retrospective consistency, kappa coefficient, and Spearman’s Rho correlations. Multivariate analyses were conducted to examine associated factors. Baseline prevalence of internalizing symptoms was 40% (95% CI: 33.4-44.8%), with moderate one-year stability (ρ = 0.48, 95% CI: 0.37-0.58). Key factors associated with internalizing symptoms at follow-up included: For girls, higher baseline SDQ emotional symptoms (OR = 2.12,p< 0.001), lower paternal education (OR = 9.70,p= 0.003), and lower SDQ hyperactivity/inattention scores (OR = 0.70,p= 0.016). For boys, comorbid externalizing symptoms (OR = 8.18,p< 0.001), maternal anxiety (OR = 2.35,p= 0.031), maternal unemployment (OR = 2.13,p= 0.043), and a sibling diagnosed with ADHD (OR = 0.10,p= 0.012). For children, peer problems (OR = 1.20,p= 0.02) and the absence of an externalizing diagnosis (OR = 0.33,p= 0.013). For adolescents, lower paternal education (OR = 5.99,p= 0.003), higher SDQ emotional symptoms scores (OR = 13.48,p< 0.001), and female gender. Gender and age differences in associated factors highlight the interplay of neurobiological and social influences. These findings underscore the importance of considering gender and age-specific factors when developing preventive and therapeutic interventions for internalizing symptoms in clinical populations.
Approximately two-thirds of US birth-to-age-three-year-olds attend Infant Toddler Care and Education (ITCE) full- or part-time, making it the fastest growing segment of childcare. Despite widespread understanding of the importance of the first three years to lifetime learning and development trajectories, and recognition of the need for quality ITCE for families in the workforce and the US economy, ITCE remains underresearched. Too little is known about what qualifications and characteristics, pedagogical beliefs, and needs and motivations of ITCE professionals related to ensuring quality for children and families. Needed too, are valid and reliable tools to assess these attributes for use in pre- and in-service professional development of ITCE program administration and staff. Thus, the researchers developed and tested reliability and validity of a self-report survey – the Beliefs About Infant Toddler Education and Care (BAITEC). BAITEC items reflect NAEYC’s developmentally appropriate practice (DAP) principles for birth-to-age-three along with other widely adopted DAP-inspired guidelines for ITCE practice from major professional organizations including WestEd PITC, RIE, and ZERO TO THREE. Existing beliefs/practices instruments were used as models of survey language and structure. Reliability (internal consistency), and face, content, construct, and criterion related validity were tested using descriptive statistics, factor analyses, and hierarchical multiple regression. BAITEC was found to be a reliable and valid measure of ITCE teachers’ beliefs and education level moderated the relationship between beliefs and self-reported practices. Implications are identified for use in pre-and-in-service professional development.
This study considered the intricate transition processes as children moved from preschool to primary school in Australia and Denmark. By employing Bronfenbrenner’s bioecological model, our investigations explored how children’s perspectives reflected and reproduced cultural and societal influences during the transition period. A qualitative approach, drawing on focus group interviews and a constructivist analytic approach based on grounded theory, supported the consideration of children’s reflections on transition to primary school. The results indicated that proximal processes played a crucial role in shaping children’s transition experience during this critical period. In Australia children’s perspectives emphasized feeling comfortable, safe, and secure, as underscored in the curriculum frameworkBelonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia. In the Danish context, children’s articulations aligned with the legislative acts and reflected their developing independence when navigating the school’s new academic, social, and personal demands. These findings highlighted the necessity of considering children’s feelings and development when they transitioned from preschool to school. To ensure effective transitions, educational policies and practices should have enhanced targeted support for children unfamiliar with school environments or lacking confidence in their academic abilities, while promoting teacher-led initiatives that scaffolded children’s social, emotional, and personal development during this critical phase. By focusing on the individual experiences and the institutional context, we can better support children in their transition to school and promote their overall well-being and engagement in learning.
The link between parenting styles and adolescents’ cyberbullying is well-established. However, few studies have examined fathers and mothers’ parenting styles separately, and even fewer have explored the relationship between parenting styles and cyberbullying from the perspective of attitude towards human dignity. Therefore, the current cross-sectional study aimed to investigate whether attitude towards human dignity underlie the associations between parenting styles and cyberbullying among adolescents. 768 adolescents from two different middle schools in China were measured for their perceptions of parenting style, cyberbullying behavior, and attitude towards human dignity. Regression analysis showed that except for paternal overprotection, both the cognition and behavioral tendency of human dignity had a significant indirect effect on fathers’/mothers’ parenting styles and cyberbullying. Still, the emotion of human dignity had no significant indirect effect.
Theory of mind (ToM) describes a child’s ability to accurately attribute mental states to themselves and others. ToM has been conceptualized as a protective factor against psychopathology across childhood. Little is known about potential moderators of this association. For example, it is unclear whether there are subgroups of children for whom well-developed ToM plays a stronger protective role for adaptive functioning compared to other children. In a community sample of 467 children, this study examined whether child temperament assessed at age 3 years moderates the association between ToM at age 3 years and internalizing and externalizing symptoms at age 5 years. We used a community detection approach to identify three distinct temperament groups: emotionally and behaviorally well-regulated (EBR), emotionally and behaviorally dysregulated (EBD), and introverted and overcontrolled (IOC). Results from moderated regression analyses suggest that social competence had a stronger protective role for the two temperament groups at elevated risk for emotional and behavioral problems, i.e., EBD and IOC. For the IOC group, greater ToM was associated with reduced externalizing symptoms. Results support the view that ToM, one aspect of social competence, may serve as a protective factor against the development of psychopathology, particularly among introverted and overcontrolled children.
This study examines the impact of Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance (D&O insurance) on shareholder value within the framework of strategic alliances (SAs). Utilizing a dataset from companies listed on the Taiwan stock market from 2009 to 2019, our analysis identifies a significant positive correlation between D&O insurance and abnormal returns around the time of strategic alliance announcements. This beneficial effect is especially marked in international, horizontal, equity-related, and marketing alliances. Our overall findings support the monitoring mechanism hypothesis, which suggests that D&O insurance is indicative of robust governance practices. By providing coverage, D&O insurance enhances managerial efficiency and reduces the potential for agency conflicts due to information asymmetry-a frequent concern in strategic alliances-thereby enhancing shareholder value. This study contributes to the literature by highlighting how D&O insurance can act as a pivotal governance mechanism that reassures investors of a firm’s commitment to effective management and strategic alignment, particularly in complex alliance settings.
Adopting a family system perspective, this study sets out to explore the association between family configurations of mother-child and father-child attachment to better understand children’s externalizing and internalizing behaviors in toddlerhood. A total of 182 heterosexual biparental families and their children (90 boys) were recruited from the general population. Most of the fathers and mothers were Canadian-born and the personal income and education level of the parents were high in comparison to the population of the province of Quebec at large. Attachment was assessed by direct observation using the Strange Situation Procedure (SSP) in infants aged 12–18 months. Children’s internalizing and externalizing behaviors were assessed in toddlers aged 24–30 months using questionnaires completed by both parents. Results showed that infants with resistant attachment to one parent and secure attachment to the other parent have more externalizing behaviors than children with a secure attachment to both parents. Moreover, children with a disorganized attachment to both parents showed more internalizing and externalizing problems than children with a disorganized attachment with one parent and secure with the other parent. These results highlight the need of adopting a systemic family perspective to better understand the link between attachment and children’s behavior problems.
Despite substantial investments in mental health care and healthcare accessibility in Europe, the mental well-being of young people is on a concerning decline. This deterioration is further exacerbated by recent global crises, notably the Covid-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine, climate change, and the deepening economic crisis leading to increased poverty and social exclusion. The main research goal was to investigate how young people entering adulthood experience polycrisis concerning stress, responsibility for crises, and self-perceived proximity. The study involved 403 young adult Poles, taking high school final exams in the years 2020–21. Assessment tools included the Brief Symptoms Inventory 18, Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale, Personality Inventory for ICD-11, and Flourishing Index. Using the latent class analysis, three distinct profiles were identified, representing diverse experiences of polycrisis. Group 1 primarily experienced stress related to economic crisis, reported lower depression rates and maintained relatively stable economic well-being. Group 2 confronted various aspects of polycrisis, excluding COVID-19, and carried a strong sense of responsibility for the climate crisis while experiencing emotional challenges. Group 3 experienced the full spectrum of polycrisis, showing tendencies towards perfectionism and rule rigidity, without specific mental health problems. The findings of this study provide valuable insights for developing models of young adults’ post-crisis functioning and for designing early, targeted interventions.Clinical Trial: The clinical trial identifier is NCT05930652.
Guardians ad Litem (GALs) are volunteer child advocates in the state of Florida and are largely considered as playing a critical role in the child welfare system. However, there has been limited research on their role and relationship with youth in care. The purpose of this qualitative study was to examine GALs’ perspectives on their relationships with youth in the foster care system. This cross-sectional study included 555 GALs from the state of Florida in which volunteers were specifically asked to respond to an internet survey with a number of open-ended questions about their relationships with youth and how relationships developed with youth in foster care. Emergent themes related to the process of relationship building, as well as factors that influence their relationships with youth and strategies for building relationships were identified. Implications and recommendations for future research with child advocates and youth in foster care, training and support of advocates, and child welfare practice and policy are discussed.
The quality of mother-child interactions can affect child developmental outcomes, both positively and negatively. Little research has examined the factors that influence the quality of mother-infant interactions, particularly in a low-middle income country. Therefore, we examined sociodemographic, maternal, and child variables, to determine whether these were associated with the quality of maternal-infant interactions. 256 mother-infant dyads enrolled in a South African birth cohort study, the Drakenstein Child Health Study, were assessed. A comprehensive battery of sociodemographic and psychosocial questionnaires was utilised. Video footage of interaction between mothers and infants at a 14-week postnatal visit was coded and assessed using the Global Rating Scale (GRS). Hierarchical multiple linear regression models were used to examine the factors associated with the GRS domains. The domains included: (1) maternal sensitivities (sensitivity, intrusiveness, remoteness, depressive mood), (2) infant behaviours (sensitivity, inertness, distress), and (3) maternal-infant interaction. Maternal childhood trauma and smoking during pregnancy were associated with lower domain scores for the maternal contribution. Higher birth weight and initiated breastfeeding were associated with higher domain scores for infant behaviours, while maternal IPV exposure, and smoking tobacco were associated with lower domain scores for infant behaviours. Infant weight-for-age at birth and initiated breastfeeding were positively associated with the dyadic interaction. Factors associated with early positive and negative mother-infant interaction identified in this research could potentially serve as targets for intervention, with the ultimate aim of improving child developmental outcomes. Notably, no psychosocial variables were significantly associated with the dyadic interactions, emphasising how strong such interactions can be in the face of multiple stressors.
The current study tests the implications of men’s and women’s gender-related attitudes for relationship quality and wellbeing. We apply ambivalent sexism theory to differentiate between attitudes that should have detrimental versus beneficial effects for relationships by promoting antagonism (hostile sexism) versus complimentary relational roles (benevolent sexism) between men and women. Actor-partner interdependence analyses of heterosexual couples participating in a nationally representative panel study (N= 755) revealed that men’s hostile sexism predicted greater relationship conflict and lower relationship satisfaction, which in turn were associated with greater psychological distress and lower wellbeing for both men and their women partners. In contrast, men’s benevolent sexism predicted lower relationship conflict and greater satisfaction, which in turn was associated with lower distress and greater wellbeing for men but not women partners. Women’s sexist attitudes had differential effects. Women’s hostile sexism predicted lower relationship conflict and greater satisfaction, which was associated with higher wellbeing for men partners. In contrast, women’s benevolent sexism predicted greater relationship conflict, which related to greater distress and lower wellbeing for women and men partners. These results highlight the importance of gender-related attitudes on relationship quality, which has important implications for wellbeing.
The retention of volunteers amid the COVID-19 pandemic was a grave concern for voluntary associations worldwide. Due to governmental restrictions on face-to-face social interactions, voluntary associations had to curtail traditional volunteer activities and thus experienced a significant reduction in their workforce. Therefore, who stayed in or left the volunteer fields during the Pandemic is crucial for the nonprofit sector. A plausible mechanism is the degree of volunteer satisfaction that may affect whether volunteers continue working for the public good despite harsh external conditions. We employed data from the Individual Giving Survey from Singapore. The survey was conducted between April and September 2021 amid the Pandemic. The study applied a Latent Class Analysis to the Volunteer Satisfaction Index. The LCA located five subgroups of volunteers as follows: (1) highest overall volunteer satisfaction (14%), (2) high Participation Efficacy and Group Integration satisfaction (13%), (3) high Organizational Support satisfaction (10%), (4) medium Participation Efficacy (19%), and (5) low overall satisfaction (44%). Regression analyses were applied to five outcome measures of volunteer behaviors and intentions, taking the latent volunteer satisfaction classes as the main independent variables. The results indicate that those with the highest overall volunteer satisfaction were more likely to maintain their volunteer status during the Pandemic, volunteer more frequently and recently, intend to volunteer in the future, and intend to encourage others to volunteer. In conclusion, volunteer satisfaction was a key factor that prevented volunteers from ceasing civic engagement during the Pandemic.
Scholars have analyzed how structural forces and cultural factors contribute to populism, but relatively little research has been devoted to documenting or theorizing counter-populism. This study asks: how does counter-populist performance become successful? We engage the literatures of populism, political performance, and hope, and conduct a case study of the 2021 COVID outbreak in Taiwan. Drawing on a qualitative analysis of 313 newspaper reports, we find that the Taiwanese government’s counter-populist efforts succeeded through transforming an emotive context of anger into one featuring hope—a process we term “emotive transformation.” We identify three facilitating mechanisms: the enactment of key elements of hope (agency, valid pathways, support from allies, and tangible outcomes); the timely inclusion of bipartisan or nonpartisan participants; and strong collective effervescence. Our study contributes to theorizing counter-populism and helps address the “Atlantic bias” in studies of populism.
ThroughMister Rogers’ Neighborhood, Fred Rogers fostered fundamental dispositions that young children would need in their futures, including respect for the unique human qualities of others, cultivating positive peer relationships, and a heart for kindness and empathy. Fred Rogers gave his audience grace and hope to celebrate the curiosities of daily life. A small pilot study was conducted to encourage teachers to understand the importance of including a diverse range of reading materials in their classroom libraries by introducingMister Rogers’ Neighborhood. Findings from the study demonstrates dispositions and qualities on how Fred Rogers provided children with a neighborhood that understood diversity and culturally responsive teaching for all children. Teachers can encourage culturally responsive teaching by reading and providing picture books from a classroom library that encourages conversations, sharing, and interactions with peers. Therefore, the pilot study also questions teacher bias when including picture books that may be criticized for being allowed and available to children to read in classroom libraries. Each teacher has a role to play in building neighborhoods of their own in classroom libraries.Mister Rogers’ Neighborhoodhas a place in democratic living skills training for teachers to nurture the affective and social lives of young children.
This paper highlights the idea that people who have experienced unfair treatment tend to develop anticipatory injustice (i.e., expectations of unfairness in a new context). Specifically, it argues that citizens who have experienced unfair treatment in education are more likely to have a sense of powerlessness toward their own political abilities (internal political efficacy) and toward the political system (external political efficacy). Using data from the European Social Survey 2018, the paper shows that citizens who have not had a fair chance of achieving their desired educational goals express a weaker sense of political efficacy and that the negative effect of unfair treatment in education on external political efficacy (i.e., attitude toward the system) is more pronounced in countries with more responsive political systems. These findings suggest that previous unfair treatment in education can make citizens more cynical and frustrated about the responsiveness of their government, particularly in countries with higher levels of political responsiveness, where citizens with unfair educational opportunities perceive that they are unfairly disadvantaged and under-resourced (in terms of knowledge, skills, and dispositions) compared to their advantaged counterparts with whom they compete for government attention and responsiveness.
Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) have a powerful impact on adolescents’ development. The greater the number of stressful life events experienced, the more likely adolescents are to experience internalizing symptoms, such as anxiety. Due to the negative effects of early adversity, it is essential that research examine which protective factors might mitigate this relationship, such as emotion regulation (ER) and attachment. In the current study, the researchers examined the relationships between ACEs, ER, attachment, and anxiety among adolescents. We hypothesized that ER would mediate the relationship between ACEs and anxiety and attachment would moderate the relationship between ACEs and ER within the mediation model. A sample of adolescents (n= 105) completed measures of adolescent anxiety, ACEs, ER, and attachment. Using the PROCESS macro, a moderated mediation model was analyzed. Mother and father attachment moderated the mediation of difficulties in ER on ACEs and anxiety, suggesting that mean levels of mother and higher levels of father attachment function as a mechanism that strengthens the relationship between early negative life events and current anxiety. These findings suggest that the mother/father attachment relationship for adolescents might be of particular importance for youth who have experienced adverse life experiences and have trouble regulating their emotions.
Economic abuse, a form of intimate partner violence (IPV), is prevalent and harmful but often difficult to detect. Chinese young adults (ages 18–35) in cohabiting relationships represent a substantial yet under-researched group at a relatively high risk of economic abuse. To enhance understanding of the potential predictors and outcomes of economic abuse in this population, we examined young adults' developmental tasks of exploring finances and romance while planning their ideal future lives. Guided by attachment theory, economic empowerment, and the Vulnerability-Stress-Adaptation (VSA) model, we investigated (1) how romantic attachment orientations and financial behaviors interact in their association with economic abuse and (2) how economic abuse is associated with hopelessness among a sample of Chinese young adults in cohabiting relationships. We used cross-sectional survey data from 445 young adults in Mainland China and employed structural equation modeling to assess our research questions. We found that young adults with avoidant or anxious attachment styles were more likely to experience economic abuse, which was, in turn, associated with higher levels of hopelessness. Additionally, healthy financial behaviors mitigated the association between attachment anxiety and avoidance, economic abuse, and hopelessness. Collectively, our findings advance the understanding of the potential predictors and consequences of economic abuse. They also underscore the importance of financial education in reducing economic abuse and its negative outcomes among Chinese young adults in cohabiting relationships.
While the population of multilingual learners (MLs) in the United States has grown rapidly in recent years, many teachers feel unprepared to teach them. The professional development (PD) teachers receive is often misaligned with their particular needs and experiences. This design-based research study examined the development and impact of online PD designed with teacher input to improve writing instruction for young MLs. Data were collected over twelve months from 25 teachers in six Southeastern U.S. school districts. Researchers evaluated the impact of the PD on teachers’ knowledge and self-efficacy for teaching writing to MLs. Findings highlight how teachers made instructional moves to support the linguistic assets of their students and shifted their beliefs toward more culturally responsive perspectives. These shifts were facilitated by the core PD elements of content focus, active learning, coherence, and duration. The study highlights a need for soliciting iterative feedback on PD from teachers themselves, revising PD based on ongoing feedback, and providing practical opportunities to apply new learning.
Immigration often causes backlash, to the benefit of anti-immigrant parties. Most studies that identify the effect of immigration on native attitudes and behaviors leverage variation in inflows of newcomers who are ethnically distinct from natives. Can we therefore conclude that backlash is the general consequence of exposure to large migration flows? We theorize co-ethnic migrants are not met with backlash and are even welcomed by partisans who are politically aligned with the immigrant group. To test this, we leverage a natural experiment in the exogenous allocation of ethnic Germans arriving from the former USSR to German counties between 1996 and 2006, avoiding bias related to selection effects. Analyses of panel data yield no evidence of increased anxiety over economic issues or crime typically associated with anti-migrant backlash in counties receiving more co-ethnic migrants. Instead, we observe a rise in native empathy for immigrants, conditional on partisanship. Furthermore, we find no anti-migrant electoral backlash. Counties receiving larger inflows saw gains for the CDU party which championed ethnic German migration. This suggests ethnicity and partisanship condition the extent to which local demographic change induces political backlash. Moreover, our case shows that, under certain circumstances, mainstream and pro-immigrant parties can derive significant short-term electoral benefits from immigration.
One of the main sources of increasing population pressure in forested landscapes of Zambia is in-migration from other rural areas. This in-migration is driven by environmental degradation and limited employment options in the villages of origin, and, to a limited extent, in-migration from urban areas due to widespread unemployment and increased cost of living in cities.The current study examines the relationship between in-migration, forest clearing, and land use change in forested landscapes in Zambia. This question is especially relevant considering that in 2020, 85% of total carbon dioxide emissions in the country were attributed to Land Use, Land-Use Change, and Forestry (LULUCF). Based on a dataset of 1123 households living in or near the Miombo woodlands in Zambia, we estimate a multivariate tobit model to explain forest clearing and the area under annual crops at the household level. Households reported the availability of agricultural land, natural resources, or fertile soils as their main reason for migration. Regression results showed that being an in-migrant household was associated with 28% more forest area cleared for crop production during the 5 years prior to data collection and with an 8% increase in area cultivated with annual crops. Our results add to limited available quantitative evidence on the impacts of in-migration on forest clearing and land use in tropical forest frontiers at the micro-scale. With rising in-migration in the future that leads to further forest clearing in migrant-receiving areas, the cycle can repeat itself, where increasing population pressure and deforestation can lead to environmental degradation and migration to other forested landscapes. To address this chain, future policy should aim to deal with the root causes of internal migration, including by investing in landscape restoration and sustainable agricultural intensification in origin areas.
Humans are inherently social beings and are often subject to social influence, a phenomenon known as conformity. But what traits characterize individuals who conform to group opinions? We aimed to examine the potential impact of religiosity and religious fundamentalism on conformity. With the growth of technology, many decisions are now made online, such as during video meetings. This shift prompted us to investigate online conformity in a pre-registered study. To measure conformity, we adapted Asch’s paradigm, using actors in an online video meeting to perform a simple perceptual task based on the classic line-length procedure. Our study focused on two constructs: (1) centrality of religiosity across its dimensions and (2) religious fundamentalism. We hypothesized that higher religiosity and higher levels of religious fundamentalism would be associated with greater online conformity. Consistent with our hypothesis, we found that religious fundamentalism positively correlated with online conformity, whereas centrality of religiosity showed no relationship with conformity in the online setting.
As remote and flexible work becomes increasingly prevalent, the importance of building bonds among coworkers is emphasized. Beyond health considerations, the role of company community sports (CCS) in fostering integration at the group and organizational levels remains unclear, especially for underrepresented employees. This study investigates the impact of CCS participation on employees' internal group and external organizational integration using data from 12 organizations (N= 2018; Age = 30.8 ± 8.4 years; Female = 47.6%). Social integration was measured through workplace trust, organizational identification, and coworker interaction. The organizational settings and participation quality of CCS were examined to analyze their effect on integration. The results indicate that frequent and high-quality participation in CCS significantly enhances both internal group integration and external organizational integration, while CCS professionalism and intense competition have very little effect on the overall effects. However, female employees experienced lower integration levels, highlighting the need for inclusive CCS initiatives. CCS activities should cater to the diverse interests and capabilities of all employees to promote greater participation and ensure inclusivity for underrepresented groups.
The purpose of this exploratory study was to first examine the dyadic trajectory of attachment change over a longer period (i.e., 5 years) than has been examined in previous research; second, to identify a mean trajectory of attachment security for couples with no history of contact with therapy as well as the effect of therapy utilization; and third, to examine couples’ attachment trajectories for gender differences. This study included 294 heterosexual married couples (78.6% European American). One-hundred and nine (37.07%) female partners and 121 (46.60%) male partners indicated that they had never utilized therapy prior to the study or during the study (had never utilized therapy at all). Research questions were explored using dyadic longitudinal multilevel modeling with pre-existing data. Results indicate overall that couples in this sample were low on attachment insecurity at the start of data collection and became slightly more insecure over a five-year span at a statistically significant, but likely unnoticeable rate. Couples withno therapy use-everbegan the study with low attachment insecurity and remained relatively secure throughout the study. Couples whoconsistently received therapybefore and during the study reported the highest levels of insecure attachment and increased in insecurity at a faster rate in comparison to those who had never attended therapy. Males who received consistent therapy before and during the study also demonstrated significantly greater attachment insecurity than their female partners. Therapy that does not specifically focus on attachment related issues is not likely to alter attachment styles. Clinicians may wish to investigate partners’ attachment histories, including complications from trauma or abuse, and tailor treatment to attachment related issues if attachment style change is a treatment goal. Future research could examine attachment change over time for couples of lower income, more diverse racial stratification, and experiencing greater relationship distress.
Higher concentrations of heavy metals were reported mainly among adult Asian persons compared to other racial/ethnic groups in earlier NHANES cycles’ studies. We aimed to examine concentrations of metals among Asian children/adolescents compared to children/adolescents identifying with other racial/ethnic groups, considering socio-demographic factors and potential mediation by fish/shellfish consumption. Using NHANES data (2015–2018), 5293 participants (1–19 years) with blood/urinary measurements of lead, cadmium, mercury and arsenic were included. Survey-weighted adjusted generalized linear models assessed differences in log-transformed metal concentrations between Asian and non-Asian participants, considering potential effect measure modification by parental education. Causal mediation effects of recent fish/shellfish consumption were estimated. Log-transformed metal concentrations were higher among Asian than among non-Asian children/adolescents. Lower parental education was associated with higher concentrations of cadmium and methylmercury among Asian participants, and effect measure modification was suggested. Proportions of the mercury exposure disparity mediated by recent fish/shellfish consumption were 9.1% (95% CI 2.6, 17.3%) for fish, and 5.7% (0.5, 12.0%) for shellfish, with similar findings for methylmercury. Overall, Asian identification was associated with higher toxic metal exposure, and among Asian children/adolescents those with parents with lower education were particularly affected. Dietary fish/shellfish intake explained a portion of the disparities. Prevention efforts should identify sources of elevated metal exposure focusing children and adolescents while considering diverse backgrounds and dietary habits including high fish consumption.
ObjectivesTo investigate differences in the prevalence of positive depression screens before and during the COVID-19 pandemic within primary care and assess patient characteristics based on depression screen results in both time periods.MethodsThis was a retrospective cohort study of patients ages 12-21 years-old from two urban primary care clinics seen for well-child visits and who had completed depression screens before and during the pandemic. Additional variables evaluated included demographics, substance use, and mental health (MH) conditions such as anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation (SI). Paired analyses using McNemar’s Chi-squared test and paired t-test evaluated differences in variables between time periods. Patients were also categorized into four groups determined by their depression screen result in each period and characteristics between the four groups were compared using the Fisher’s exact test.ResultsOf 1621 patient charts reviewed with documented depression screens, there were 232 patients who had screens completed during both time periods. Twenty three (9.9%) patients screened positive for depressive symptoms before the pandemic and 38 (16.4%) screened positive during the pandemic. More patients had SI, depression, anxiety, and substance use during the pandemic. Patients who had at least one positive depression screen had more MH conditions than patients who had negative depression screens during both time periods.ConclusionsAmong a cohort of adolescents seen in primary care before and during the pandemic, more patients screened positive for depression and there were more MH conditions during the pandemic, demonstrating a need to prioritize MH resources for adolescents in the primary care setting.
Parental psychological control is an emotionally manipulative parenting behavior that is used to control adolescents’ thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. Such control is associated with problematic behaviors among adolescents. Less research has examined adolescents’ beliefs about parental motivations for using psychological control or the moderating role of such beliefs on associations between psychological control and adolescents’ problematic behaviors. We analyzed data from 406 US adolescents (ages 11–19) who completed school-based surveys (2020) assessing sociodemographics, parental psychological control, adolescents’ beliefs about parental motivations for using psychological control, and adolescents’ problematic behaviors (i.e., substance use, risky cyber behaviors, over- and under-eating behaviors, depressive and anxiety symptoms, delinquency, physical and relational aggression). Participants (Mage= 15.00 [SD = 1.64], 57.6% female, 85.7% White, 5.2% Black, 2.0% Asian, 1.5% Hispanic) who reported greater maternal and paternal psychological control were more likely to engage in a range of problematic behaviors. Adolescents most commonly indicated that their mothers and fathers used psychological control to keep them safe, to control their thoughts, feelings, or behaviors, and because they perceive it to be a normative parenting behavior. Adolescents’ beliefs about their mothers’ and fathers’ motivations for using psychological control were associated with adolescents’ problematic behaviors. These beliefs also moderated associations among psychological control and problematic behaviors. Findings suggest that psychological control is differentially associated with adolescents’ problematic behaviors based on their beliefs about why their parents engage in this control. Findings highlight the importance of considering adolescents as active participants in the parenting process. Findings provide potentially important individual-level targets for intervention.
This study examines the role of fathers’ gender roles and work conditions as they independently and in combination predict father engagement with infants. In recent decades, conceptualizations of fatherhood have retained the breadwinner ideal while adding caregiving responsbilities. Despite this shift, fathers’ involvement with their children, on average, remains less than mothers. Using a longitudinal sample of 77 working-class couples, analyses were conducted with fathers’ reports of their engagement in play and instrumental caregiving tasks as the outcome. Results revealed that fathers with more egalitarian gender-role beliefs were more engaged in play with infants as reported by fathers. Coworker support was associated with fathers engaging in more instrumental tasks and play. Fathers’ beliefs about gender-roles and their workplace flexibility interacted to predict their engagement in play, with more traditional fathers being more involved under conditions of high workplace flexibility. Thus, workplace flexibility may be an important predictor of father engagement for more traditional fathers, who would otherwise be less engaged than their egalitarian counterparts. This study underscores the importance of supportive work conditions to increase engagement in fathers and suggests that the workplace might be an effective intervention site for fathers’ parenting.
This study examined the longitudinal association of family stress with child adjustment and tested mother- and father–child conflict as simultaneous mediators. On two occasions about 12 months apart, data were collected from the mothers and fathers of 477 kindergarten children from Hong Kong, China. The mean age of children at Time 1 was 52.3 months (SD= 7.18), and 47% of them were girls. At Time 1, mothers and fathers independently completed questionnaires on their family stress and provided demographic information. At Times 1 and 2, mothers and fathers independently rated their own relationships with their children and their children’s adjustment. Structural equation models revealed that, controlling for demographic factors and the prior levels of the outcome and mediator variables, family stress was associated with increases in child externalizing and internalizing behaviors and decreases in child prosocial behaviors over time. The associations of family stress with increases in child externalizing and internalizing behaviors were partially mediated by increases in both mother- and father–child conflict over time, whereas the association of family stress with decreases in child prosocial behaviors was fully mediated by increases in mother–child conflict. Theoretically, our findings highlighted the roles of both mother- and father–child conflict in understanding the relationship of family stress with child adjustment in a Chinese community. Practically, our findings pointed to the potential utility of helping mothers as well as fathers manage family stress and parent–child conflict as means to support the development of young children.
A child’s social skills development is crucial, but social functioning deficits are common. Social impairment has been associated with various risk factors, including child anxiety symptoms and parenting practices, specifically among parents who experience distress. Given the impact that anxiety and parental distress have on social functioning, it is important to examine child characteristics that could mitigate the impact. Research has identified child characteristics (i.e., leadership, functional communication, adaptive skills, executive functioning, and emotional self-control) that promote social functioning and could serve as protective factors. The present study examined the protective effects of these child characteristics on the relation between parental distress and post-treatment anxiety of children who participated in the Resilience Builder Program® (RBP; Alvord et al.,2011). The RBP is a resilience-based cognitive-behavioral group treatment for children with social impairments. A total of 76 parents completed measures before and after the RBP, providing information on parent’s self-report of psychological distress, child anxiety, and the identified child characteristics (Mage= 10.01,SD= 1.44; 77.6% White; 81.6% male). Moderation analyses indicated that for children with poor pre-treatment functioning in adaptive skills, functional communication, and leadership, parent psychological distress was related to increased post-treatment anxiety, whereas, for strong pre-treatment skills, a negative relation was detected. Results suggest that proficiency in adaptability, functional communication, and leadership may act as a protective factor from parental distress by promoting positive treatment outcomes. Such findings could inform future interventions where these skills are emphasized during a child’s treatment if the parent indicates high distress.
Credit cards, as an effective instrument to address household economic risks, play an important role in household economic behavior and decision-making. This paper is based on data from the 2015–2021 China Household Finance Survey (CHFS) and investigates the impact of credit card usage on household financial vulnerability. The research results indicate that the use of credit cards significantly reduces household financial vulnerability, which is achieved by alleviating risks of income, unemployment, and health. Heterogeneity analysis shows that the impact of using credit cards is more pronounced for households with lower education levels, those without any members working in the public sector, and those without critical illness insurance. Furthermore, the use of credit cards can alleviate the negative impacts of natural disasters and critical illnesses on household finances, greatly enhancing the ability of households to withstand risks.
PurposeCost-utility analyses examining the value of new vaccines for pneumococcal disease will require health state utilities as inputs. Existing utilities for pneumococcal infections in young children are limited. The purpose of this study was to estimate health state utilities associated with pneumococcal infections in young children.MethodsSix health state vignettes depicting infections due toStreptococcus pneumoniaewere drafted based on published literature and clinician interviews. To address methodological challenges in estimating utilities for temporary infections in children 0–5 years of age, several time trade-off approaches were explored in a pilot study (N = 28 participants). In the subsequent utility elicitation study conducted in the UK, health states were valued using the best performing method from the pilot (10-year time horizon, with infections repeated annually) with adult general population respondents imagining a child 2–5 years of age.ResultsA total of 208 participants completed interviews (51.9% female; mean [SD] age = 41.0 [14.9] years). Mean (SD) utilities were 0.902 (0.092) for pneumonia requiring hospitalization, 0.901 (0.087) for bacteremia, 0.894 (0.103) for recurrent acute otitis media (AOM), 0.882 (0.107) for recurrent AOM treated with pressure equalization tubes, 0.878 (0.109) for bacteremic pneumonia, and 0.809 (0.145) for meningitis.ConclusionLower health state utilities were associated with health states that had longer treatment periods, required more invasive treatment, and described more severe infections. Utilities from this study can be used in models examining cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccines. These results have methodological implications for future research estimating utilities associated with temporary pediatric health conditions.
ObjectivesThis study aimed to replicate the evaluation findings of a youth program adopting a positive youth development (PYD) approach implemented during the pandemic years of 2020–2021 and 2021–2022 in China mainland using a validated subjective outcome evaluation (SOE) assessment tool.MethodsA 36-item SOE scale was used to investigate participants’ evaluation of the quality of the PYD program, the quality of the program implementers, and the perceived program benefits. The data were collected from 3,765 (Mage= 13.46,SD= 0.72, 50.4% females) and 2,786 (Mage= 16.24,SD= 0.68, 51.7% females) junior and senior high school students, respectively.ResultsThe SOE scale showed an invariant three-factor structure and adequate validity and reliability. Consistent with previous findings, student participants showed favorable perceptions of the youth program’s quality, the quality of the implementers, and the multifaceted benefits of project participation. In addition, senior grade students held more favorable evaluations in comparison to those of junior grade students.ConclusionIn conjunction with previous research conducted before COVID-19, the present findings support the psychometric properties of the SOE scale and the value of the PYD program across different times.
This interview article explores how British anthropologist Tim Ingold’s work can inspire innovation in mental health and the psy disciplines. Ingold critiques dominant biomedical and individualistic approaches, arguing for the importance of caring attentiveness and abolishing dichotomies like those between surface and depth, when engaging with people to understand and assist them. Instead, he suggests viewing human existence as correspondences with environmental, social, and relational others. The interview highlights the concept of “doing-undergoing,” proposing that care is a reciprocal, relational process. Ingold’s ideas suggest a shift towards practices that engage directly with the world and promote attentiveness to human and more-than-human relations. The article encourages practitioners, educators and students of mental health disciplines to rethink traditional models and adopt more humane approaches.
Performance theories treat social action as relatively improvisational, but how such spontaneous and unscripted actions manage to succeed with audiences is undertheorized. Cultural pragmatics is exceptional in this regard, specifying the elements of successful performances and placing particular emphasis on the dramatic skills of actors and the agency of audiences. But how exactly do actors make use of the active character of audiences in achieving performative success? In this article, I draw from interview and observational data on improvisational theatre to analyse and catalogue the skills and techniques that improvisers employ to engage their audiences. I find that improvisers achieve performative success consistently by exercising varying degree of “restrained reciprocity” with audiences, and developing skills and techniques to generate enthusiastic responses, make inferences about the audiences mental and emotional states, tailor performances to audience preferences, and coordinate performances with the affordances of performance venues. I use these insights to refine the conceptualization of dramatic skills, fusion, and mise-en-scène within cultural pragmatics.
In the last decade, the phenomena of using excessive credit has developed fast. Long-lasting household debt can jeopardize the personal well-being of every member of the household. Most existing research focuses on economic situations to explain the reason that households frequently use overdraft services. The aim of this study is to broaden the scope of the research of the overdraft phenomenon by building a theoretical model which integrates economic factors together with personal psychological traits and external social influence. Qualitative research was used that included in-depth interviews of 29 urban salaried employees. Results showed that economic factors were a significant contributor in explaining overdraft use. Yet social influencing factors, especially the past financial behaviour of the parents and the children’s social demands, were found to have a large effect on the tendency to use overdraft services regularly. Personality traits, mainly locus of control and self-control, added enlightenment to understanding this phenomenon. Through identification of these factors, appropriate preventive steps can be taken by institutions and individuals to reduce the use of surplus credit in ways that lead to harm to the household.
Collaborative partnerships between stakeholders in Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) settings are recognized to contribute to positive outcomes for children and improve service quality. However, for many within the field, interpretation and actualisation of the components that make up collaborative partnerships remain an enigma. The concern is that without clear interpretation of key components and inclusions, educators and families struggle to enact and engage in high-quality collaborative partnerships. Motivated by this concern, a major research project sought to explore ECEC stakeholder perspectives and experiences of successful collaborative partnerships. The poststructural case study utilised observation, interviews and situational analysis methods to illuminate the multiple truths of parent and educator participants living the collaborative partnership experience in ECEC. Findings helped expose the key components and inclusions of collaborative partnerships evidenced in threeexceeding-levelECEC service. From these insights, families and educators are offered clarity in ways to increase the efficacy for translating mechanisms of high-quality collaborative partnerships in everyday practice in ECEC, including practical applications such as the use of space, the development of synergistic relationships, and being attuned to the service philosophy.
Sustainable development is a crucial way not only of promoting the economic success of family businesses but also of ensuring their long-term stability and prosperity. As a central element of relational governance, trust plays a vital role in efforts to align the interests of principals with those of agents, and this factor has received significant attention in the context of family businesses. Stewardship theory further posits that granting agents sufficient authority and trust can effectively encourage them to engage in stewardship behaviours that are more in line with the overall interests of the organization, thus providing a new theoretical perspective on agency problems as well as a practical approach that can be used to address these issues. In traditional Chinese culture, family businesses benefit from deep-seated family values and unique relational networks, which confer on them a distinctive governance logic and a system rooted in foundational trust. On the basis of survey data collected from 281 nonfamily chief executive officers (CEOs) in China, this study empirically examines the impact of trust between controlling families (CFs) and non-family CEO (NFEs) on the sustainable development performance of family businesses. The findings of this research are as follows: (1) Trust between CFs and NFEs is developed through the exchange of economic benefits, the integration of social emotions, and the establishment of institutional structures, thus leading to three forms of trust: calculative trust, relational trust, and institutional trust. Calculative trust can inhibit the sustainable development performance of family businesses, whereas relational trust and institutional trust can enhance such performance. (2) Calculative trust reduces stewardship behaviour on the part of NFEs, thereby weakening the sustainable development performance of family businesses. Conversely, both relational trust and institutional trust can promote stewardship behaviour on the part of NFEs, thereby strengthening the firm’s sustainable development performance. This study addresses gaps in previous research on this topic and offers valuable insights that businesses can use to take advantage of trust to improve their sustainable development outcomes.
This article examines the strategies developed at the local level to strengthen pan-ethnic solidarity within Latino communities in the San Francisco Bay Area. It explores how local organizations and migrant communities may foster a pan-ethnic identity and the subsequent effects on the inclusion process of Latino immigrants with precarious legal status. Based on 87 in-depth interviews, this study offers a novel perspective on integration by focusing on intra-ethnic dynamics within Latino communities, particularly at the local level, rather than broader inter-ethnic or national contexts. The findings highlight the critical role of local contexts in shaping the mechanisms of inclusion for Latino immigrants, revealing the complexities of identity formation under conditions of legal precarity. In particular, they show how in exclusionary contexts, within-group solidarity can be built. This research contributes to broader sociological and political debates on immigrant inclusion, pan-ethnic identity formation, and the influence of local environments in these processes.
The paper analyzes current discussions concerning the so called “replicability crisis” – a notion describing difficulties in attempts to confirm existing research findings by their additional scrutiny or by new empirical studies. We propose interpretation that this “crisis” may be seen as a manifestation of the increasing inconsistency between, on the one hand, the outdated views on a human being and social structures dominating in the academic mainstream across various disciplines, including psychology and sociology, and, on the other hand, the reality of the emerging new stage of societal evolution, neo-structuration, which brings to the forefront individual agency. Our analysis suggests the possibilities for the future inter-disciplinary paradigmatic shift, which implies putting in the center of research not the idea of a constant or predictably developing individual in the context of solid external structures operating in line with a presumably sustainable “progress”. Instead, under increasing neo-structuration, individual agency becomes, simultaneously, a manifestation of the essence of human nature (as cultural psychology argues) and the driving force for societal transformations, including solving most acute social problems, in the concrete historical period. It means a fundamentally new task for social sciences and humanities: to elaborate methodological solutions and theoretical frameworks to systematically comprehend the contextually conditioned human ability to create and transform – and not only to reproduce. Addressing more attention to agency manifestations in digital environment and, in particular, to those congruent to social activism or volunteering, seems especially fruitful for comprehending human activity in the neo-structurated world.
A large body of research has evidenced different risk factors associated with the severity of gambling. However, most of the research has been conducted with a male population, and consequently it has been inferred that the female population presents the same experiences and characteristics. Research on female gamblers is limited, with the result that their gambling-related problems are not effectively addressed. In light of this, the study aims were two-fold: (1) to identify differences between Spanish and Italian women seeking treatment for a gambling disorder, and (2) to examine variables associated with gambling severity in a clinical sample of women. For this study, a total of 106 women gamblers (Mage= 48.83;SD= 12.41) completed the assessment, evaluating gambling behavior, alexithymia, hopelessness, and mental health (depression, anxiety, and hostility). Results indicated that Spanish and Italian women showed differences in sociodemographic, psychological, and gambling-related variables. Furthermore, exhibiting higher levels of depressive symptoms, and experiencing difficulties in identifying emotions were related to the increased gambling severity. Also, received the Italian intervention was related to lower gambling severity. These findings emphasize the need to provide evidence-based treatments, as well as to improve existing treatments and develop prevention and intervention strategies adapted to the characteristics of female gamblers.
Children in early childhood education and care (ECEC) settings are particularly vulnerable to infectious diseases. Therefore, the role of early childhood educators (ECEs) is crucial for infectious disease prevention (IDP). This study aimed to define and analyze ECEs’ role in IDP using the Developing a Curriculum (DACUM) method and educational needs analysis. The DACUM analysis revealed seven key duties:Routine Monitoring,Environmental Management,Education and Guidance,Administrative Responsibility,Risk Management,Self-Development, andMedication Management.Routine Monitoringemerged as a critical duty involving continuous surveillance to detect early signs of infectious diseases, indicating its importance in maintaining overall health.Environmental Managementhighlighted measures for disinfection and securing the necessary consumables, whereasEducation and Guidancefocused on developing and implementing educational activities to prevent disease spread.Administrative Responsibilitiesare required to facilitate effective communication between the ECEs and children’s families.Risk Managementranked highly in the education needs analysis and involved responding to infectious disease outbreaks by planning appropriate play activities under restrictive conditions.Self-Developmentemphasized the need for ongoing learning to ensure continued IDP in pediatric patients. Lastly,Medication Managementhighlighted the challenges faced by ECEs in administering medications and the need for clear practice guidelines. Establishing an IDP framework based on these key duties enables ECEs to integrate educational and health priorities more effectively. This framework could serve as a foundation for training programs and policy development, supporting safer learning environments and promoting children’s health and development.
This theoretical paper offers an in-depth examination of the intersection between Theory of Mind (ToM) and artificial intelligence (AI), drawing on developmental psychology and philosophical analysis. By investigating the key developmental stages at which children begin to understand that others have distinct mental states, the paper provides a framework for assessing the cognitive boundaries of AI systems. It critically interrogates the pervasive human inclination to anthropomorphize machines, particularly through the attribution of complex mental states like “knowing,” “thinking,” or “believing” to AI entities that lack subjective experience. The paper argues that AI, while capable of simulating cognitive processes, operates without the conscious awareness that defines human cognition, raising profound epistemological and ethical questions. It explores the broader implications of this projection for society, considering how our conceptualization of AI affects both technological development and social structures. Ultimately, this interdisciplinary inquiry calls for a more nuanced understanding of the distinctions between human and machine cognition, advocating for responsible approaches to AI as its capabilities evolve.
International actors have only relatively recently recognized that internal displacement is a strategy, as well as a consequence, of violent conflict, and the subject accordingly continues to give rise to a host of misinterpretations and misunderstandings, including the tendency to view it as a protection challenge, which persists despite the fact that state actors, as the supposed protectors, are also invariably the main perpetrators of displacement. This article seeks to explore and establish the ‘place’ of internal displacement in the Syrian Regime’s political and military strategy in Assad’s ongoing war on the Syrian people. It draws on an emerging literature on displacement, along with a range of reports on the Regime’s internal displacement activities in the Civil War, to propose that it needs to be engaged and understood as a rational strategy that is being applied to alter existing demographic realities. After zooming in to focus on strategic displacement in particular, it seeks to demonstrate that displacement should not just be understood in terms of its military significance, but also as a mechanism that the Regime uses to reconfigure and rearrange existing political and social realities.
Much research argues that socioeconomic status—often conceptualized as education, income, and occupation—predicts health via economic and social resources. Yet, there is relatively limited research on occupation and health. This study asks the following question: to what extent does occupation predict adult health? The study answers this question using data from employed early midlife respondents from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent to Adult Health. The analysis finds that higher occupational prestige is correlated with better physical health, mental health, and substance use outcomes. However, the results show no prestige-health associations after controlling for personal education and income. The findings reveal differences in health by occupational type. Those working in construction or production have relatively high rates of smoking and frequent binge drinking but have low BMI. Those working in transportation have relatively poor self-rated health and high rates of functional limitations but are unlikely to report using non-prescribed drugs. These results demonstrate distinct physical health and substance use patterns among specific blue-collar occupations in early midlife.
In the recent times, the role of artificial intelligence in social, economic, and environmental decision-making is important. Artificial intelligence is considered a source of enabling countries to achieve sustainable development goals. The economic consequences of the introduction of artificial intelligence are mostly overlooked and yet to be explore empirically. This work aims to empirically determine the impact of artificial intelligence on income inequality in the pioneers of the field, i.e., the G7 economies. Also, it aims to explore the role of fiscal intervention in mediating the impact of artificial intelligence on income inequality in these economies. The panel data techniques such as the test for cross sectional dependence and the test for slope heterogeneity are used. Furthermore, CIPS is used to determine the level of integration of the variables in the model. Westerlund test for cointegration and granger causality test by Dumitrescu and Hurlin (2012) are also used in the study. Furthermore, CSARDL technique is used to find out the impact of artificial intelligence along with control variables on income inequality. The results show that artificial intelligence reduces income inequality in the G7 both in the short and the long run. The absolute value of the long-term coefficients is larger than those in the short run. Based on the empirical findings of the work, it is recommended that appropriate fiscal interventions are needed in the short run to sustain the income inequality reduction impact of artificial intelligence. However, in the long run such interventions can be counter-productive but the requisite skills to optimally utilize artificial intelligence should be imparted to individuals.
This study aimed to examine whether fully automated and Internet-based personalized normative feedback (GAMCHECK) improves problem gambling symptoms and behaviors. We used a randomized parallel-group superiority design to examine whether GAMCHECK would be more effective than an assessment-only (AO) condition at 12-week follow-up. This study was conducted online using questionnaires and the LINE app. Participants were recruited through online surveys. All outcomes were assessed using Internet-based questionnaires. We used a linear mixed model to assess the effects of GAMCHECK on scores for the Gambling Symptom Assessment Scale (GSAS) as the primary outcome; secondary outcomes were the Gambling Related Cognitions Scale (GRCS), Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C), number of gambling days, money spent on gambling, and help-seeking behaviors. With data from 274 participants (GAMCHECK: n = 141; AO: n = 133), we demonstrated that GAMCHECK was more effective solely on GRCS than AO at both one-week and four-week follow-up. Furthermore, by the 12-week follow-up, GAMCHECK significantly more effective than AO on gambling symptoms measured by the GSAS, number of gambling days and amount of money spent on gambling during the prior week, GRCS, and PGI-C at 12-week follow-up. No significant effects were found for help-seeking behaviors. Cognitive distortion mediated the effect on change in GSAS scores. GAMCHECK was significantly effective in improving gambling symptoms, number of gambling days, amount of money spent on gambling, and cognitive distortion. However, regarding help-seeking behavior, further refinement of GAMCHECK is necessary to motivate problem gamblers to take actions to solve their problems.
The Canadian immigration system is unique in that subnational governments play a significant role in selecting immigrants through Provincial Nominee Programs (PNPs), which empower nine provinces and two territories to actively select (“nominate”) economic immigrants. Collectively, PNPs have become the country’s largest economic immigration program, but they are also the least studied, leading to a lack of understanding, transparency, and accountability. Using a subnational comparative method, this study examines 78 active subnational immigration programs (policy outputs), investigating policy design, requirements, and distribution of nominations in 2021–2022. We assess whether PNPs contribute to broader changes in the Canadian immigration regime. First, our analysis reveals the prevalence of employment-based streams and prearranged work as a selection criterion. Second, we show nuanced policy outputs in the progression toward a two-step system, with provincial variation in requirements for prior Canadian experience. Third, while PNPs are open to low-skilled workers, programs tailored exclusively to this group remain relatively limited. This comparative analysis reveals significant inter-provincial variation, and highlights the importance of a “disaggregated” evaluation of the migration state at the subnational level.
A significant portion of female neonatal, infant and child mortality could be avoided. These girls form part of the phenomenon known as missing women. Previous literature has examined whether families that prevent unwanted (female) pregnancies from reaching term provide greater care to the surviving daughters, but it reports mixed results. An avenue that has received limited attention is the possibility that explicit discrimination against girls legitimates otherwise non-realized behaviors, leading to additional fatal neglect. This paper contributes to the literature, going a step further in the causal identification of aggregate prenatal discrimination effects on postnatal discrimination by comparing the survival outcomes of brothers and sisters who were exposed to different levels of prenatal discrimination around the time of their births. The sample of siblings is reconstructed from the birth history of women in the Indian National Family Health Survey (2016–2017). Prenatal discrimination is measured by the male to female sex ratio at birth (SRB), computed by backward induction from the Census of India (2011). Results show that the greater the difference between the SRB in the birthyears of sisters and the SRB in the birthyears of brothers, the greater the difference in mortality between sisters and brothers. This finding lends support to the idea that prenatal discrimination legitimized otherwise latent discrimination. Furthermore, the excess female mortality associated with this mechanism is found in rural areas, but not in urban ones, and this relationship is more intense for infant girls born in high parities and therefore more likely to belong to families that did not resort to sex-selective abortions to control family sex-composition. This paper contributes to the problematization of the intertwining dimensions of discrimination, providing a better understanding of the missing women phenomenon.
Material deprivation captures the concrete experience of shortfalls in standard of living. Prior research on material deprivation largely focused on additive individual determinants, neglecting the multiplicative nature of demographic categorizations, limiting our understanding of material deprivation at the intersection of social attributes. Using data from the Swiss Household Panel, this study estimated the predictive power of five intersectional attributes (age, gender, education, marital status, and nationality) for deprivation in the Swiss context. Results show that educational attainment, marital status, and nationality had the strongest predictive power for deprivation. More than a third of the between‐strata variance was captured by intersectional interactions but was not explained by the additive effect of social attributes. Efforts to alleviate material deprivation would benefit from understanding the resident population’s intersectional identities for more precisely targeted interventions.
This research note estimates refined marriage rates and coresidential relationships among individuals identifying as gay, lesbian, and straight in the United States seven years after the legalization of same-sex marriage. Data to estimate refined marriage rates or coresidential relationships by sexual identity are not available in a single national dataset so we leverage data from the U.S. Census Bureau's 2022 American Community Survey and Household Pulse Survey, to estimate refined marriage rates and the share in a coresidential union for straight, lesbian, and gay populations aged 18 to 64, based on the unmarried population and age. Findings highlight the importance of considering age alongside sexual identity when analyzing marital behavior and coresidential relationships. Both refined marriage rates and percentage living in coresidential relationships were lower among gay identifying males across all age groups, whereas rates among lesbian identifying females were comparable to those among straight identifying males and females. This study contributes to research on contemporary relationship dynamics as well as calling for new demographic data and investigations into the complexities of marriage and cohabitation among diverse populations.
The concept of vulnerability has become central in debates and policies around migration and asylum, but its use has been criticised as ‘individualising’ vulnerability and neglecting the socio-legal structures that promote it. However, shifting the focus on the structural determinants of vulnerability risks ignoring the agentic power and subjective conditions of individuals within a group considered vulnerable. On this backdrop, the current study proposes to focus on the phenomenological level and sets out to provide an exploratory analysis of conditions of experiential vulnerability. The study draws from 15 interviews conducted with a group of young adults who continue to live in temporary reception centres in Luxembourg despite having obtained refugee status. Integrating a conceptual model of vulnerability as embedded, multi-layered, and dynamic with insights from a critical phenomenological approach, the comparative thematic analysis identified three main elements shaping young refugees’ experiences of vulnerability: positions, interpretations and (re)actions. The conclusion discusses some limitations of the study and potential implications, focusing on the potential short and long-term impact of experiential vulnerability on migrant individual’s well-being and on society as a whole.
Even though the Central Business District (CBD) is a critical urban space, extant studies on zoning guidelines ignore the CBDs. Therefore, the extent to which collective actions in CBDs are informed by guidelines is uncertain. Using reviews, the in-depth interviews of 45 CBD users and 5 city managers, and naturalistic observations, the study explored the practices in Kumasi Central through the lens of Ghana’s CBD prescriptions. The review suggests an explicit intent for quality CBD practices per the guidelines. However, the guidelines lack the supporting standards and specifications to aid achievement. The study reveals a disconnection between the observed practices and the guidelines implying that the existence of objective guides does not automatically create the best or the conceived spatial practices. The study indicates that commercialisation without recourse to the provision of social services, land ownership challenges, outdated CBD design in the face of skyrocketing user numbers, and weak punitive measures among others define the practices in modern Central Kumasi. This implies that actions activated by user dispositions, rather than guidelines, shape the CBD’s practices. Consequently, the study recommends revising the CBD guidelines to establish a nationwide standard direction as the first step. Then, the guidelines should be decentralised to consider user preferences and district dynamics. Lastly, it is proposed that CBD redevelopment plans that employ a collaborative and participatory approach are crucial to improving Kumasi’s Central Business District. Thus, a context-driven set of guidelines co-created by governments, urban planners, academicians, traditional authorities, and all stakeholders may work best in achieving the expected spatial expression in CBDs.
In this article, the authors aim to offer a perspective on self-compassion capable of becoming part of a unified psychology; however not “from scratch”, but based on what Neff (2003a,b) proposed. This is through the analysis and refinement of her theory in two stages. First, they check whether the supposed six factors exist in the constitution of self-compassion using the exploratory factor analysis (EFA) technique in a collected sample for this study (249 participants, 69.8% women ranging in age from 18 to 65, median = 22). In the second stage, they analyze and refine Neff’s theory based on the results of the EFA, and in light of an evolutionary perspective and Aristotle’s philosophy, following, respectively, the suggestions proposed by Zagaria et al. (2020); Osmo and Borri (2024a) that aim to unify psychological science.
This study initially conducted a systematic literature review to examine gender differences in environmental orientation (EO) using the New Ecological Paradigm (NEP) scale. Following PRISMA guidelines, 38 studies were selected from a total of 168, providing a comprehensive overview of the existing research on the topic. Based on the insights gained from the review, a large sample survey was then conducted to explore further the differences in EO between male and female consumers. The results were compared with previous studies employing similar methodologies. The central research question is: Does gender identity influence EO as measured by the New Ecological Paradigm (NEP) scale? The NEP scale is a well-established instrument for assessing environmental attitudes. The significance of this topic lies in the potential impact of differing attitudes among gender groups on the effectiveness of communication and comprehension. Understanding these differences is crucial for developing strategies for sustainable development through targeted and effective messaging. Our findings indicate that women exhibit a higher NEP orientation, suggesting they are more aware of environmental concerns than men. The systematic review also confirmed this trend, with the majority of studies reporting higher environmental awareness among women. Additionally, women demonstrate greater awareness of related problems and a higher willingness to change their behavior to reduce their environmental impact. In contrast, men’s attitudes are more varied, reflecting a broader diversity of opinions within this group.
It is shown that unstable eigenvectors determine the manner in which the subpopulations involved in rumor spreading organize themselves when initially spreading out rumors. The corresponding amplitudes may determine temporal aspects of rumor spreading even beyond the linear domain of the eigenvector analysis. In doing so, eigenvectors and amplitudes taken together can reveal the relatively simply organization of rumor spreading. For the benchmark Daley-Kendall model it is demonstrated that the eigenvector determines the rumor spreading organization in all three fundamental cases of rumor spreading suggested by Pequeira. Moreover, the approach is applied to the Earth-is-flat rumor that circulated during spring 2017. The analysis suggests that subpopulations organization was characterized by a 21:25 ratio such that per 25 initially ignorant community members 21 spreaders occurred, a ratio that is close to the optimal 1:1 ratio that would indicate that every ignorant member turned into a spreader.
Precarity is a term capturing the migrants’ situation under globalization and migration-driven uncertainties. Many have attempted to explain the precarity in terms of employment changes, but fewer in terms of non-employment ones. A systematic review is conducted to summarize the conceptualization of migrant precarity manifested in non-employment aspects. Studies (n= 46) from 2014 to 2024 were selected by searching through social science databases of using the keyterms of “precarity” or “precarization” or “precariat” or “precariousness” AND “migrants” or “migration”. Precarity conceptualizations were compared by migrants’ narratives to identify precarity items omitted in literature. Findings showed that migrants’ precarities suffer from typical economic, social and legal precarities. Yet, precarities of household, information and housing are understudied. Moreover, analyzation of migrants’ narratives shown mismatches to scholar’s conceptualization, which reflects a need for scholars to research with the voices of migrants to rectify the conceptualization. The review also shows a socially reproduction relationship between precarities, while multidimensional conceptualizations will help scholars’ analysis to stick consistently to migrants’ experiences. It is also recommended to research more on information, housing, and psychological precarity, apart from a need to adopt longitudinal lens into migrant precarity studies. Words count for body of manuscript: 8,524 (excluding references and appendix).
Numerous policy-makers and social scientists promote flexible working as a means to reconcile work and family life, often explicitly targeting women. Accordingly, one might expect that flexible working-time arrangements are more prevalent in occupations with a high share of female employees. Yet, previous evidence indicates the opposite. To address this puzzle, we investigate the occupational opportunity structures for flexible working. A devaluation argument proposes that employers perceive female-typed work as being of lower value, thus inhibiting the provision of flexible working-time arrangements in tfemale-dominated occupations. We evaluate this argument against alternative explanations, namely differences in the ability to bargain for flexible working and in structural or practical barriers to flexible working. Descriptive results based on German panel data (GSOEP, 2003–2017) enriched with occupational-level information confirm that female-dominated occupations provide the least access to flexible work. Linear probability models with yearly fixed-effects indicate that power resources and structural barriers account for differences in flexible working between male-dominated and integrated occupations; yet an unexplained disadvantage for female-dominated occupations remains. Moreover, this disadvantage has grown between 2003 and 2017. We interpret this result as support of a cultural devaluation of female-dominated occupations in access to flexible working-time arrangements. Our findings highlight that the empirical reality of gendered occupational opportunity structures contradicts the gendered policy discourse on flexible work.
Theorists in the embedded, embodied, and enactive traditions have frequently proposed habit as a model for much or all of cognition. These proposals typically depict habit as a pervasive phenomenon with unique explanatory benefits. This paper contends, however, that the concept of habit, as applied in these debates, is more effectively understood not as a general principle explaining cognitive processes, but as an evocative picture of the mind that reorients our thinking. By examining popular self-improvement books on habits, we show that philosophical applications of ‘habit’ heavily rely on common everyday understandings of the term. We argue that this dependence casts doubt on its status as a unifying explanans. We further demonstrate that insufficient recognition of this dependence promotes a mistaken view of habits as constituting the grounds of mentality. In our conclusion, we discuss the implications of moving beyond a uniform explanatory framework for cognition, advocating for a greater emphasis on the contextual embedding of mental phenomena instead.
Gambling encompasses a wide variety of activities, and the structural characteristics of each form contribute to its potential risk. However, the literature does not fully agree on the risk levels of certain gambling forms. In this study, we classify less risky gambling forms (soft forms) based on public perceptions of their riskiness. We examine the link between gambling experience and problem gambling prevalence. A survey was conducted in a model region of the Czech Republic, a post-socialist country with high gambling availability, with N = 2,498 respondents. A typology of gambling forms (lotteries, betting, and casino games) was created based on perceived risk similarities. Lotteries are the most frequently played gambling form, with 86.3% reporting lifetime participation. Among those who exclusively engage in lottery-type forms, 15 percentage points more women than men participated in the last year, and the gap widens to 31 points over a lifetime. Forms of gambling perceived as more risky show a lower proportion of non-problem gamblers, both for recent and lifetime participation. Furthermore, individuals who gambled within the past month or year are at higher risk of developing gambling problems compared to those whose gambling experiences were less recent.
Despite the legal requirements for families to participate in the education of children with special needs, the implementation of these requirements is often inconsistent due to a lack of awareness among both families and educators. This study was conducted to critically examine the roles, challenges, and effective strategies for family involvement using Bronfenbrenner’s Ecological Systems Theory to explain the complex relationship between family and educational systems in supporting child development. Using a mixed-methods research design, this study combines quantitative data from a survey of 157 preschool teachers with qualitative data from in-depth interviews with 16 educators who have experience in inclusive classroom settings. Quantitative analysis showed no significant differences in the implementation of family involvement strategies based on teachers’ professional seniority or gender (p > 0.05). However, educators who implemented classroom adaptations for students with special needs showed higher levels of effective family involvement (p < 0.05). Qualitative findings identified significant barriers to family involvement, such as time constraints due to parents’ work commitments, socio-economic and educational disparities, and inadequate communication between families and schools. Educators proposed solutions, including flexible scheduling, targeted awareness initiatives, and enhanced collaboration among stakeholders to overcome these obstacles. The insights from this study are essential for policymakers, educators, and families working to create inclusive educational environments that effectively address the needs of children with special needs. Recommendations for future research include expanding the study to diverse geographic regions and educational levels and conducting a comprehensive examination of the long-term effects of family involvement on children’s academic and social outcomes, as well as on teachers’ professional development and satisfaction within inclusive education frameworks.
Exploring the nuanced and often elusive realm of pre-reflective consciousness presents a methodological challenge, as it involves capturing experiences that arise prior to reflective thought and language. This article introducesPhenomenological Mapping, an innovative research method designed to systematically study the pre-reflective dimensions of human experience. Grounded in the foundational theories of Edmund Husserl (2012), Maurice Merleau-Ponty (2013), and Martin Heidegger (1992,2008), the approach also integrates contemporary perspectives from Dan Zahavi (1999,Contemporary Phenomenology and Qualitative Research5(1), 1–17,2021), Shaun Gallagher (2006,2017), and Evan Thompson (2010,2017). Drawing upon advancements in neurophenomenology, embodied cognition, and intersubjectivity, Phenomenological Mapping provides a structured framework for accessing and analyzing pre-reflective consciousness. This methodology guides researchers through a sequence of eleven phases, from initial preparation and contextualization to data collection, analysis, and integration. It employs Husserl’s phenomenological reduction, Merleau-Ponty’s concept of embodied perception, and Heidegger’s exploration of being-in-the-world. The approach is further enriched by Zahavi’s intersubjectivity, Gallagher’s work on embodiment, and Thompson’s continuum of consciousness. By utilizing multisensory data collection techniques—such as visual diaries, audio recordings, and experiential practices—Phenomenological Mapping offers a multi-dimensional approach to analyzing subjective experience. This research contributes a novel methodological tool to phenomenology, facilitating an empirical investigation that remains faithful to the philosophical foundations of pre-reflective consciousness while bridging empirical and theoretical domains.
The present paper treats the issue of methodological assumptions in mainstream neuropsychology and, as counter-concepts, in Vygotsky’s approach and Holzkamp’s critical psychology. The analysis identifies four main assumptions concerning the methodology of mainstream neuropsychology, which are contrasted with the positions of other approaches. The methodologies of the mainstream neuropsychology vs. Holzkamp’s and Vygotsky’s approach assume: (1) mechanistic vs. dialectical materialism; (2) formal vs. dialectical logic; (3) decomposition into elements vs. units; (4) reductionism of psychic processes to the brain vs. activity as a unity of environmental and organism-pole. Despite the vast coincidence in their main assumptions, we also discuss nuances of difference between Holzkamp’s and Vygotsky’s approaches. The former, possibly due to its reference to cultural-historical activity theory (CHAT) and its theoretical neglection of the organism-pole of psychic functions, falls short of structural considerations in its accounts on phylogenetic emergence. On the other hand, Vygotsky’s neuropsychology does not fully explore the phylogenetic emergence of basic units of functional psychic organisation. This might be due to certain implications of Vygotsky’s initial accounts, which seem to highlight cultural development to the detriment of phylogenetic one.
The paper critically analyses cultural-historical activity theory (CHAT) in two most important aspects - the basic unit of analysis (i.e., in essence, the subject of the theory) and the main epistemological and methodological principles. It is shown with several examples that the concepts and principles that CHAT took from Vygotsky’s theory are absent in Vygotsky’s theory and are ascribed to him by misunderstanding and misinterpretation. One may agree or disagree that cultural-historical theory and activity theory are different theories, despite their historical connections, but Leontiev’s theory has no activity (and the concept of activity! ) as a unit of analysis, because the principle of the unity of consciousness and activity theory represents a completely different logic of analysis, which does not need units of analysis at all.
The majority of youth who experience foster care want to go to college. Unfortunately, few achieve their post-secondary goals. Many states have developed programs and policies to increase the level of support available to students who have experienced foster care (SEFC). However, most of these initiatives have not been evaluated. The present study examines two emergent strategies in Texas; a) an unfunded legislative mandate to appoint a liaison on every college/university campus to serve SEFC and, b) a grassroots movement to develop campus support programs for SEFC at particular institutions.  We evaluate these programs and policies using a unique data set that merges historical data from the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services, academic records from the Texas Higher Education Board, and primary data collected from campus websites and liaison surveys. Our data from 2012–2021 revealed that retention rates for SEFC did not increase in association with the liaison legislation. However, our analysis from the 2020–2021 academic year revealed that students who attended four-year universities with a campus support program had significantly higher retention rates than students who attended comparable schools without these programs (41% higher). However, we did not find a benefit of campus support programs for students attending community colleges. We conclude that higher education support can improve retention rates of SEFC. However, success is not guaranteed, but rather is contingent on funding, execution, and context. We call for ongoing assessment of existing strategies in order to identify best practices for improving post-secondary outcomes of SEFC.
Donald Black created a purely sociological theory that explained social life without reference to psychology, biology, or individual persons as such. Granting that he succeeded, and that his theories have value, we can revisit the question of interdisciplinary work. Does pure sociology have implications for psychology, biology, or the study of individual persons as such? Here I suggest several ways in which Blackian theory and the Blackian paradigm can guide work in other fields, including applications in social psychology, to the study of personality and perception, to the field of ethology, and finally to evolutionary biology. Black’s pure sociology offers important insights and new directions even for those who are not themselves pure sociologists.
The COVID-19 pandemic has given rise to numerous conspiracy theories, focusing on topics such as vaccine effectiveness, the virus’s origin and public health measures. These narratives have spread rapidly through social and traditional media, influencing public perception and behaviour towards vaccination efforts. In particular, they have contributed significantly to vaccine hesitancy. This study focuses on Italy, where narratives linking COVID-19 vaccinations to sudden deaths have gained significant traction. By conducting a thorough investigation into post-vaccination mortality rates, this study aims to shed light on the true nature of the data regarding deaths and mortality rates in Italy. The study uses a Difference-In-Differences (DID) framework to analyse post-vaccination mortality rates across Italian municipalities from 2018 to 2023. Results indicate that the overall mortality rate did not significantly increase following the vaccination campaign, and the impact varied across different demographic groups and regions, indicating disparities in healthcare delivery, public health strategies and demographic factors between the North and the South. This study contributes innovatively by providing empirical evidence from Italy, addressing a critical gap in understanding the relationship between vaccination and public health outcomes.
Male victimhood ideology, the belief that men are the primary targets of gender discrimination, has gained traction among young men in recent years, but the underlying sources of these sentiments remain understudied. Utilizing four different datasets, collected in 2015, 2018, 2020, and 2023 from representative samples of Korean men, this study investigates whether identification with male victimhood ideology is explained by objective economic hardships faced by men or by their perceptions of a status loss. The economic hardship perspective finds little support, as men who were less educated, had lower incomes, were unemployed, or had non-regular employment were no more likely to identify with male victimhood than their more economically stable counterparts. Instead, a perceived decline in socioeconomic status relative to one’s parents emerged as a significant predictor of male victimhood ideology, particularly among men from middle to upper class backgrounds. Additional analyses show that this pattern is not observed among Korean women of the same age group. Overall, the analysis of the four datasets consistently shows that male victimhood discourse is embraced most by those who perceive a loss of privilege, rather than by those who are marginalized.
The contemporary tendency of states to admit or reject migrants based on their economic utility has been documented by many sociologists and other social science researchers. However, few sociologists have critically analyzed the theoretical underpinnings with which they themselves tend to approach migratory phenomena. The purpose of this article is to demonstrate the economistic bias at the heart of the sociology of migration, and to present its downsides. Starting with a case study —the sociology of migration in Quebec, Canada —the article shows how this bias tends to structure the framing of the social phenomenon of migration. The article then presents the main pitfalls of such an economistic bias for sociological thought: the neglect of emigration contexts; the dispossession of agentivity in migrant people; and the renewal of an ethnocentric and neocolonialist analysis of migration. The article concludes with two suggestions for de-economicizing the sociology of migration.
To produce a theoretical approach about the relations between neuroscience and psychopathology that expands beyond the biomedical model to include a non-reductionist, enactive, and biocultural perspective. An integrative review, drawing from thebiocultural approachfrom Anthropology, is used to produce examples from epigenetics, neuroplasticity, and functional neuroanatomy. A biocultural approach points to a brain that is highly plastic, reinforcing a much more complex model in which biological vulnerabilities and the historical-cultural environment co-construct each other. The examples given seem to point to the pressing need for a critical expansion of reductionist models of psychopathology. Importantly, the cultural-historical environment to which we refer is not a set of neutral social relations to which individuals are homogeneously exposed, such that aspects that are usually studied under the social determinants of health and disease (poverty, discrimination, violence, and other factors that represent sources of control, production, and distribution of material resources, ideology, and power) need to be incorporated in adequate biopsychosocial models of mental distress.
The development of social activities specifically tailored for older adults needs to be grounded in a comprehensive understanding of the effects of these activities from multiple perspectives. The present study applies thematic analysis to examine experts’ views and experiences regarding the effects of social activities on older people of different ethnic backgrounds and various abilities in Russia. The results suggest that participation in such activities benefits the everyday personal development of older participants. The experts involved in organising and developing social activities also noted that family relationships may be enhanced through the participation of older adults due to changes in their lifestyles, opportunities to fulfil new social roles and related improvements in communication between family members. Social activities not only address stereotypes about older adults’ abilities but also affect the understanding of mature beauty in new ways while creating a more fulfilling environment for older people by better meeting their interests and needs. Regardless of the specific activity, older people’s participation facilitates the transmission of culture and traditions across generations, cultivates an image of older adults as valuable sources of information and provides a more comprehensive and inclusive conceptualisation of ageing within society. The experts who were interviewed for this study recommended that decisions about developing social activities be madewith older adultsrather than without considering their opinions, supporting horizontal connections and allowing the heterogeneity of older adults.
To reduce reliance on solid biomass wood, particularly high in developing countries, clean fuel initiatives such as LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) are receiving increasing attention. Researchers have analyzed the relationship between access to LPG and continued use of solid biomass fuels under the assumption that access to firewood is easy and free, leading to continued reliance on firewood, a phenomenon known as fuel stacking. However, environmental regulations in some developing countries are changing, and making access to firewood difficult. I focus on fuel stacking under a rural LPG scheme in Bhutan with access to firewood governed by an annual subsidized quota system. I also examine the benefits of time saved from faster cooking with LPG and increased expenditure on electricity through detailed data on firewood consumption, time spent cooking, and energy expenditures on electricity. Data were collected from 176 households from 19 remote villages in Bhutan during four different seasons between 2018 and 2020. I found that rural households use different cooking fuels simultaneously, indicating a continued use of fuelwood and electricity even when LPG is accessible. Results indicate that LPG schemes directed at rural households are not effective in reducing dependence on fuelwood even with the introduction of a subsidized quota system, but rather incentivize fuel stacking.
BackgroundDespite advances in transplant procedures, children and adolescents still face some challenges post-transplant and are at high risk for psychiatric, academic, and social problems. This study aims to explore the lived experiences of adolescent kidney transplant recipients through interviews and the use of mandala art therapy.MethodsThis study adopted a descriptive phenomenological design and thematic analysis approach based on Husserl’s philosophy. The sample included kidney transplant recipients aged 12–18 years admitted to the pediatric nephrology polyclinic of a university hospital in southern Türkiye. Data were collected through in-depth interviews conducted during a mandala art activity with 14 adolescent kidney transplant recipients. The qualitative data were analyzed using Colaizzi’s seven-stage qualitative analysis method, which is suitable to the descriptive phenomenological design employed in the present study.ResultsFour themes and seven subthemes emerged from the data related to the problems and experiences of adolescents with kidney transplantation and growing up with a new kidney. (1) Education, (2) Ideas about the kidney; including the sub-themes “What the kidney transplant process gave them,Feelings about their kidneys”, (3) Family; including the sub-themes “Relationship with the donor,Relationship with siblings”, (4) Social environment; including the sub-themes “Experiences with hospital,Relationship with friends and Desire for friendship with a transplanted Peer”.ConclusionMandala art therapy-assisted interviews are an effective communication method for adolescent kidney transplant recipients to express their feelings and thoughts and to look at life from a broader perspective. Understanding the life experiences of adolescents with kidney transplantation and the difficulties they face may enable better and more systematic planning of the care to be given to them.
The aim of the current study is to better understand how financial cybercriminal networks recruit co-offenders. We address important knowledge gaps, as not much is known about pathways into cybercrime due to a lack of research. More knowledge can be used in practice in the context of cybercrime offender prevention. For these purposes, we analyzed 15 closed police investigations into cybercriminal networks from the Netherlands, in accordance with the approach of the Dutch Organized Crime Monitor. This is a valuable and well-established research methodology to study criminal activities of which little is known. Analysis revealed that core members need a variety of co-offenders to successfully commit financial cybercrimes such as phishing and online consumer fraud. These co-offenders can be categorized as professional facilitators, recruited facilitators, and money mules. They were approached on social media, especially on Telegram and Snapchat, as well as in the physical world. Some were promised a financial reward and were actually paid out the money, but others were manipulated and possibly forced to cooperate under threats of violence. It was not always necessary for cybercriminal networks to actively reach out, as co-offenders also found their way to the network. Taken together, our study indicates there are various offline and online pathways into cybercrime, and that cybercrime offenders apply different strategies to recruit co-offenders.
Can the fraught relation between disability and aging ever become untangled? What is the place of the catastrophically disabled in a time when giving voice and being seen are significant lodestars of political activism? And what becomes of the caregivers, who often labor in silence, and who hope to work well enough just to get through another day? This essay draws on the memoirs of Simone de Beauvoir, Annie Ernaux, Amy Bloom, and my own experiences to show the complicated imbrications of age, disability, and caretaking. I attempt to demonstrate through these experiences that age and disability, which appear to be intimately woven together, are oftentimes misleadingly connected. I suggest that an ethic of vulnerability, rather, is a more useful heuristic that avoids collapsing the categories of age and disability together. Nevertheless, these reflections inevitably lead to a discussion of death and the choices, policies, and other care structures (un)available for persons who sometimes desire to make significant decisions about ending their life when confronted with the possibility of terminal and catastrophic mental and bodily decline. Finally, I suggest that these relationships and the decisions about (end of life) care must be understood to be ambiguous and require a deep reciprocity of care based upon love, sympathy, and respect.
While most research on social media use and health behavior focuses on non-problematic use, studies specifically examining problematic social media use (PSMU) are scarce. Existing research often investigates only one health behavior at a time, leaving a gap in understanding the broader relationship between PSMU and multiple health behaviors across various contexts. This study aimed to explore the association between PSMU and adolescent health behaviors using an exploratory specification curve analysis (SCA) approach. This approach applies SCA in an exploratory manner and, in contrast to the original approach, explicitly includes non-equivalent specifications. We analyzed data from 188,175 adolescents (aged 11–15 years) across 43 countries from the 2018 Health Behaviour in School-aged Children survey. Three SCAs were conducted, with different health behaviors (i.e., substance use, physical activity, and dietary intake) as outcomes. Specifications varied by the operationalization of dependent variables, the inclusion of potential confounders (age, relative family affluence), and gender and country subsets. Most specifications indicated a significant relationship between PSMU and health behaviors: 97% showed a positive association with substance use, 78% a negative association with physical activity, and 92% a negative association with healthy dietary intake. The combination of country subsets and outcome variables explained a considerable portion of effect variation across all three SCAs. The findings suggest that PSMU is associated with detrimental health behaviors in adolescence, a critical period for forming lifelong health patterns.
In recent years, digital technologies have become an essential part of our lives. At the same time, the well-being of the elderly has raised great concern in developed countries due to the ageing of the population. In this context, our paper seeks to link these two issues by analysing the relationship between digital technologies and the well-being of the elderly, taking into account that the use of the former is endogenous. Such an issue has been little addressed in the literature. For this purpose, we use microdata from the European Social Survey since it includes both measures of individuals’ subjective level of well-being and of their use of the internet. We focus on Spain because it is a rapidly aging country, which also has the highest life expectancy in the European Union. Our main findings show that using internet daily is negatively associated with individuals’ happiness, but we observe a positive relationship between internet use and their social life. Additionally, these associations are enhanced for individuals aged over 60 years.
PurposeThis study aims to explore how mindfulness contributed to the flow exnperience in high-pressure situations during the peak of the coronavirus pandemic, particularly in challenging contexts like emergencies. The authors seek to enhance our understanding of experiencing flow at work, particularly during the COVID-19 crisis, when challenges became hindrance demands. Prior to investigating the potential processes and mechanisms in this association, the study also explores the mediating role of two variables: psychological capital and coping competence.MethodThe initial study population comprised all (N= 550) emergency center employees in Mashhad, Iran. Employing simple random sampling and the Morgan table, a 220-person sample was selected. Data analysis used AMOS and SPSS software alongside a structural equation model.ResultThe study confirmed the relationship between mindfulness and coping skills but did not confirm the relationship between mindfulness and flow via coping skills. However, it did confirm that mindfulness is associated with flow through psychological capital.ConclusionThe study enhances our comprehension of flow in high-risk work environments where challenges are not motivational. The authors explored flow experience in a work setting with hindrance demands, unlike previous studies focusing on flow in challenging and motivating contexts like sports (e.g., mountain climbing, surfing). Past research lacks a consensus on the relation between mindfulness and flow experience, leaving room for future exploration. Furthermore, the interplay between mindfulness, psychological capital, and coping competence as mediators in this relationship remains unexplored in prior studies.
Affective polarization is on the rise. Increasing polarization is often attributed to the nature of political discussion on social media platforms, but little is known about the affective consequences of the incivility of online discussion. This study adopts a trust game to consider whether people punish the incivility of both out-partisans and co-partisans and whether there are gender-related differences in punishment. It also examines whether incivility can have spillover effects on broader out-party hostility. Five pre-registered hypotheses are tested using a pair of survey experiments fielded to a sample (N= 974) of adult Canadian partisans. We find that participants punish the incivility of co-partisans but not out-partisans. However, incivility may spill over and heighten hostility towards out-parties more generally. Finally, we do not find evidence that women are more likely to be punished for incivility. Our findings highlight significant nuance with respect to the effects of incivility on trust and affective polarization, as well as the expectations of civility people hold for individuals online.
The paper shows how important it is to consider the requirement level when measuring mismatch unemployment. While the mismatch between occupations decreases over time, the imbalances in the distribution of unemployed workers and vacant jobs across requirement levels increased, which, in sum, led to a stagnation of mismatch on the combined occupation-requirement level. Furthermore the paper shows that mismatch unemployment emerges especially at the level of un- and semi-skilled activities, as there is excess supply regardless of the occupations. And, more importantly, the excess supply is rising recently.
There has been increased attention on teachers’ use of exclusionary discipline with the youngest learners in elementary schools; however, little is known about early childhood teachers’ use of particular discipline practices and social emotional supports. The present study reports results from a survey of 936 teachers working in elementary schools in preschool through second grade classrooms regarding their use of discipline practices and social emotional supports. We found that teachers across grade levels used several positive social emotional teaching supports and overall reported a low use of harsh discipline practices such as suspension and expulsion. However, teachers reported using some exclusionary discipline practices, such as timeout, especially in kindergarten. Several social emotional supports were not well-utilized especially in early elementary grades. Findings are discussed in the context of supporting teachers to use recommended and supportive practices with young children across the early grades.
Despite the critical role of clinicians in facilitating access to healthcare by transgender and gender diverse (TGD) people, their insight and practice-based knowledge have been underresearched. Also, they may complement TGD people's experiences by giving an insider perspective. This exploratory qualitative study, conducted online in a sample of 25 clinicians who work with TGD people (n = 11 clinical sexologists), explores how clinicians working with TGD people in Portugal perceive healthcare provision to TGD people, using a summative content analysis. Results showed that clinicians perceive their role to be all-encompassing, ranging from helping to cope with individual and interpersonal issues, and to cope with other health services. Participants highlighted the increase of TGD people’s visibility, awareness, and scientific knowledge, albeit more is needed as evidenced by several challenges derived from clinicians (e.g., lack of national guidelines, lack of training for standardized care, and lack of professional skills) and from the TGD clients (e.g., unrealistic expectations and lack of compliance). The proposed solutions include increasing the investment in specialized training and human resources, raising awareness within the healthcare system, and increasing interdisciplinary specialized care. Clinicians specialized in clinical sexology highlighted changes in scientific knowledge, more available evidence, and a need for socio-political changes and awareness raising. This study reveals that healthcare providers are self-critical but also reflect upon the difficulties of navigating between organizational, human, and personal constraints, claiming that to provide better healthcare there, policymakers must take concerted measures that can have a social impact.
We study the association between caregiving demands and psychological distress using data on 538 employed parents in the United States from the 2016 wave of the National Study of the Changing Workforce. Despite prior evidence on the relationship between caregiving demands and psychological distress, less is known about what type of caregiving demands matter, and under what conditions these demands matter. With that in mind, this study extends prior research by considering elder care, along with different types of child care (such as typical and exceptional child care), into the discussion of caregiving demands and its relationship with psychological distress. Moreover, we test whether this association is moderated by employed parents’ level of work-role salience. Results show that working parents with exceptional child care demands and those with both elder care and child care demands (i.e., sandwich generation care demands) report higher levels of psychological distress than do those with only typical child care demands. In addition, work-role salience moderates the association between having sandwich generation care demands and psychological distress. Further, the moderating effect of work-role salience is significantly stronger for working mothers than for working fathers.
Executive function encompasses various cognitive skills that govern our thoughts and actions when completing a task. The skills include self-regulation, memorisation, and cognitive flexibility to ultimately foster autonomy, planning, and problem solving skills. Various interventions have been used to develop executive function skills; however, the use of structured play has not been adequately assessed. Therefore, this qualitative study explored how the development of executive function skills can be supported in preschool settings using structured play. Since acquiring new knowledge and skills is particularly effective during social interaction, Vygotsky’s sociocultural theory was the conceptual framework. A qualitative approach was deemed the most suitable choice as it relied on direct observation of the phenomenon. Eight South African preschool teachers were selected from four preschools with different curricula (National Curriculum Framework, Independent School Association of South Africa curriculum, Montessori, and Reggio Emilia). Research data was obtained using semi-structured interviews and lesson observations. The data was then analysed and coded to arrive at six themes. The themes include: (1) guiding, (2) modelling, (3) instructing, (4) repeating, (5) incorporating child-led activities, and (6) considering children’s interests. Overall, the data supported active engagement through social experiences as a route to develop executive function skills. Given the psychosocial benefits of acquiring executive function skills at an early age, the contribution of this study suggests that play-based strategies are effective in enhancing executive function skills. These strategies are applicable in different learning environments.
Globally, the number of immigrants keeps growing. More and more people leave their familiar places to seek a new life, and each of them carries their own story of migration. While a macro view is crucial in understanding migrations, the value of those individual stories has been recognized, but not enough. This autoethnography shares a story of the transformation of an East Asian female educator who migrated to the United States. Her transformation—from an apologetic and quiet East Asian woman with a “culturally surrendered mindset” into a proud advocator of multilingual children’s language rights—is analyzed with the notion ofConocimientoby Gloria Anzaldua.Conocimientois a process of reaching enlightenment by recognizing and accepting ourselves as we are and connecting with others. Reflecting the spirit ofConocimiento, the study ends with a calling to fellow immigrants to rethink their self-identity and to be proud of who they are.
PurposeBookmarking is a qualitative method used to assign descriptive labels to ranges of patient-reported outcome (PROM) scores. We aimed to evaluate variability between bookmarking samples and test score ranges where there was variability in expert opinion in previous studies.MethodsWe conducted two bookmarking sessions with patients who experienced orthopaedic fractures (n= 11) and one session with orthopaedic clinicians (n= 10). Participants reviewed vignettes comprised of PROM items and responses that represented hypothetical patients with a range of severity. Vignettes were constructed for PROMIS Upper Extremity Function, Physical Function, and Pain Interference measures. Participants placed bookmarks between vignettes that reflected different levels of severity (e.g., mild, moderate). The score reflecting the midpoint between vignettes was used as the recommended threshold between categories. We evaluated the variability in thresholds across participants, bookmarking panels, and previous studies.ResultsAlthough patients and clinicians were not unanimous, the majority agreed on thresholds separating levels of severity for PROMIS Upper Extremity (≥40 = within normal limits, 30–39 = mild, 23–29 = moderate, < 23 = severe), PROMIS Physical Function (≥46 = within normal limits, 38–45 = mild, 26–37 = moderate, < 26 = severe), and PROMIS Pain Interference (≤50 = within normal limits, 51–60 = mild, 61–68 = moderate, > 68 = severe).ConclusionTesting new vignette scores within the same patient population enables more nuanced testing of score ranges without clear consensus and provides additional evidence for recommending thresholds for severity categories. These thresholds can be utilized to help interpret PROMIS scores from patients receiving orthopaedic care.
Given disruptions to early care and education following the COVID-19 pandemic, it is important to mitigate long-term impacts of the pandemic on child development among ethnic and racial minority children. Our team is implementing an early childhood mental health consultation (ECMHC) model, or a multi-tiered intervention to support young children’s social-emotional development, that utilizes mental health consultants to deliver a virtual toolkit to ethnically and racially diverse early care and education centers. Understanding the perspectives and ongoing needs of center directors, teachers, and parents is critical to intervention delivery. Between February and April 2023, 18 participants (n= 6 center directors,n= 6 teachers,n= 6 parents) across 12 early childcare centers completed individual interviews in English or Spanish. We used a rapid qualitative analysis to generate four themes related to participants’ perceived impact of COVID-19, including how it (1) exacerbated existing financial and administrative challenges, (2) increased their need for adaptability, (3) highlighted the importance of support for staff facing educational challenges during a public health emergency, and (4) highlighted the value of partnerships between parents and centers. We generated five additional themes specific to participants’ ongoing needs and suggestions, including (1) increased financial support, (2) outside behavioral support, (3) enhanced center staff self-care, (4) balancing in-person interaction with planned virtual delivery, and (5) use of existing smartphone applications for communication with parents. In addition to informing adaptations to our model, including expanding upon program pillars (e.g., expanding our safety planning pillar to include financial safety via linkages to community resources), these data may be used to inform the delivery of other ECMHC programs for diverse populations.
In rapidly developing urban areas, land use changes frequently occur in conjunction with population growth. The determination of the existing land use structure via traditional methods, including field studies and remote sensing techniques, is an exceedingly time-consuming, costly, and labor-intensive process. To address this issue, this paper proposes an innovative model based on Point of Interest (POI) data, Thiessen polygons and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in the process of identifying land use functions. The model’s workflow comprises data collection, spatial geodatabase design, data pre-processing, the construction of geoprocessing workflows with ModelBuilder, analysis, urban function identification, and model verification steps. This study employs Thiessen polygons to analyze the topological and spatial relationships among 127,265 geotagged POIs in Ankara, the capital of Türkiye. The model achieved a Kappa value of 0.82 and an overall accuracy of 84.5%, demonstrating a high level of reliability. Following this analysis, functional density ratios were calculated based on the distribution of POIs to identify areas characterized by either dominant or mixed land use. The proposed methodology is expected to contribute significantly to urban planning efforts by providing insights into the utilization patterns of urban land. Furthermore, this model has the potential to function as a decision support system, aiding city planners in the effective management and development of urban spaces by delineating existing functional areas.
This study aims to explore the lived experiences of South Sudanese refugees in White Nile state, Sudan, focusing on the impact of pre-refugee life, war-related trauma, and current camp conditions on their mental health. Additionally, it aims to emphasize the strategies used by refugees to cope with challenges and highlight deficiencies in services offered by humanitarian agencis. The study used a qualitative analysis approach and conducted in-depth interviews with 15 refugees from South Sudan residing in White Nile State refugee camps in Sudan. Participants were recruited from the two refugee camps, ensuring diversity in age and gender. All focus group discussions were audio-recorded, and detailed transcripts were generated. The transcribed data were subjected to thematic analysis. The investigation revealed a number of patterns. First, participants recalled a pre-refugee life marked by safety, joy, and community cohesion, which sharply contrasted with their subsequent experiences of violence and displacement. Furthermore, refugees have conveyed substantial psychological distress resulting from their exposure to violence, suffering physical mistreatment, and the loss of their dear ones. These experiences have left profound psychological trauma and feelings of anxiety. Furthermore, the existing circumstances in the refugee camps intensified their psychological distress, as they faced challenges in having access to basic needs, job, schooling, and preserving their cultural traditions. Coping strategies of the refugees predominantly relied on cultural practices, family support, and religious prayer. By incorporating refugees’ resilience and community engagement as factors that promote long-term stability in South Sudanese refugee communities, this study underscores the urgent need for humanitarian organizations to redesign a more holistic approach that includes immediate mental health needs, socioeconomic factors, educational accessibility, and gainful employment. Ultimately, this study advocates a paradigm shift in humanitarian efforts to prioritize mental health services for refugees by addressing the interlinked nature of mental health and broader socioeconomic factors.
Urban blight has become a pressing concern for cities across the globe. The presence of blight leads to functional, social, and economic depreciation, lowering community wellbeing and quality of life. Due to the dynamic nature of this phenomenon, policies formulated to counter blight often prove to be ineffective in addressing place-based urgencies in the affected areas. Existing guidelines and frameworks have often failed to empirically identify blighted regions and ascertain the conditions of affected areas. This research seeks to address this prevalent gap in the literature by proposing a Composite Urban Blight Identification and Evaluation Index. By employing the coupling coordination method, this research developed an index for quantitative evaluation of urban blight based on identified criteria. The proposed index was applied to analyze and determine the state of blight in five selected wards of Kolkata, India, demonstrating its reliability. This research makes an important contribution to the existing body of knowledge and can aid decision-makers in the pragmatic formulation of solutions for alleviating urban blight.
During the economic lockdown following the outbreak of COVID-19, the demand for unpaid work at home increased. Drawing on gender theory and the time availability explanation, this article explores the way changes in family and work arrangements altered the division of housework and care work in a highly gendered society; Palestinian-Arab dual-earner families in Israel. In-depth interviews with 28 Palestinian-Arab women were conducted to explore the social forces underlying the gendered aspects of family-work arrangements in Palestinian-Arab families in Israel during the pandemic. The findings provide evidence that both undoing and doing gender are observed, with the latter prevailing, leading to an intensification of gender inequalities. This suggests that changes in time availability do not guarantee an egalitarian division of unpaid work because cultural models are the main drivers, emphasizing the cultural context’s importance in understanding the way families arrange their household demands.
We introduce a novel, policy-relevant measure of multidimensional empowerment based on the Alkire-Foster method and using data from partnered women aged 15–49 in 45 low- and middle-income countries: the Multidimensional Women’s Empowerment Index (MWEI). Our measure identifies a woman as empowered if she achieves sufficiency in at least six of its eight indicators, corresponding to four basic life domains in which women can exercise power: health, material environment, social relationships, and physical integrity. We find that in only 21 countries of our sample, the percentage of multidimensionally empowered women exceeds 50%, with countries like Mali reaching just 7.5%. Urban regions show higher MWEI values than rural regions in 37 countries. Insufficiency in physical integrity contributes up to 39% to the lack of empowerment in Papua New Guinea but only 15% in Burkina Faso, illustrating how the composition of disempowerment significantly varies across countries.
This study investigates conspiracy theories on China’s Weibo regarding the Russo-Ukrainian War, with a specific focus on the roles and impacts of different types of accounts (official verified accounts, individual verified accounts, and ordinary personal accounts) in these discussions. Employing structural topic modeling (STM) and qualitative text analysis, the study comprehensively analyzes Weibo posts from March 1, 2022, to October 21, 2023, aiming to unveil the thematic characteristics, construction motives, and their manifestations in the social media context of conspiracy theories. The findings reveal that the content of conspiracy theories primarily revolves around three aspects: conspiracies directly related to the war itself, nationalist narratives, and geopolitical discourse. These themes not only reflect the public’s primary narratives of conspiracy theories about the Russo-Ukrainian War but also unveil the motives for constructing and disseminating these theories. Notably, different types of social media accounts display distinct understandings and focal points regarding the nature and themes of conspiracy theories. This study offers a new perspective on the dissemination of conspiracy theories in regulated media environments, with particular attention to the Global South. In these contexts, state-led communication strategies and social media governance contribute to the formation of public discourse.
Equality of opportunity (EOp) is a broad category of egalitarian theories that has attracted considerable attention in recent decades. Empirical implementations of EOp primarily focus on the explained component of inequality, classifying determinants of the outcome (e.g., health) intoeffort—legitimate causes of inequality—andcircumstance—illegitimate causes of inequality. Largely overlooked is unexplained variation, which in statistical analysis manifests as residuals and is often ignored as a statistical annoyance. The true random component of residuals is now often referred to asluck. In this paper, we propose theplaying fieldframework that serves as a pragmatic test as to whether residuals signal unfairness in empirical EOp analyses and that enables empirical explorations of roles of luck within the EOp framework. Using a large sample of Canadian older adults, our empirical application of the playing field framework shows that distributions of residuals are not always fair, though there is no consistent pattern of unfairness across age-sex groups. The paper’s three main conclusions are: luck matters; luck should be explicitly incorporated in the EOp framework through the brute luck-effort characterization; and residuals are not just an innocuous statistical annoyance but can represent unfair inequality, and ignoring them can underestimate unfair inequality.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a significant global health concern, causing 1.5 million deaths annually. We conducted an ecological analysis to examine TB prevalence in Brazil from 2018 to 2022, focusing on its relationship with the Human Development Index (HDI) and its inequality-adjusted version HDI (IHDI). We determined significant correlation between HDI and TB prevalence for the period of 2018–2021 (P= 0.044 in 2018,P= 0.041 in 2019,P= 0.044 in 2020, andP= 0.043 in 2021). However, an unexpected rise in TB cases in 2022, despite an increase in HDI, disrupted this trend (P= 0.12), indicating additional influencing factors. The IHDI showed correlation with TB prevalence, underscoring the importance of addressing socio-economic inequalities. These findings suggest the need for targeted interventions, particularly for vulnerable populations.
This study explores the regulatory debate and outcomes of the 2008 financial crisis and the COVID-19 crisis to shed light on the factors influencing accounting regulation responses to global crises. Through the theoretical lens of the regulatory space, it examines the discourse and responses of the regulatory actors in their efforts to address these crises in relation to the application of IFRS within the EU. By means of a two-step analysis of multiple public sources, we find that crisis outcomes resulted from several factors and their interactions, including the characteristics of the crises and political dimensions, such as interorganizational linkages among space participants. The 2008 financial crisis sparked a vigorous debate, leading to technical and political consequences in the short and long term. Conversely, regulatory space participants demonstrated a cooperative approach during the COVID-19 crisis, recommending flexibility in the application of existing standards. This study provides insights into the accounting consequences of crises by elucidating path dependency in both the accounting standards and political realms. Thus, it emphasizes the importance of a nuanced examination of technical and political consequences in standard setting, as well as their time horizons.
Computational thinking CT is central to computer science, yet there is a gap in the literature on the best ways to implement CT in early childhood classrooms. The purpose of this qualitative study was to explore how early childhood teachers enacted asset-based pedagogies while implementing CT in their classrooms. We followed a group of 28 early childhood educators who began with a summer institute and then participated in multiple professional learning activities over one year. Examining a subset of the larger group, findings illustrate how teachers intentionally created learning communities that empowered students and utilized their expertise to guide CT learning in their classrooms. Teachers recognized that asset-based approaches to CT instruction empowered not just their students but also themselves. By using asset-based CT pedagogies, early childhood teachers can better support students from marginalized communities, reducing achievement gaps and inequities in digital learning.
Air pollution has been linked to various health problems in children, including respiratory and neurological issues. Existing research has also found that exposure to air pollution can affect children's cognitive ability and academic performance, with some studies showing a decrease in test scores and grade point averages associated with increased exposure to hazardous air pollution. This study examined the association between air pollution and children’s academic performance in Chile. This research addressed a critical gap in the literature by providing data from an understudied context and tracking children's academic performance at an individual level over time. We constructed a panel dataset that followed students from 1st to 8th grade and estimated their exposure to PM2.5, based on the distance of their school to air monitoring stations from elementary to middle school. We tracked students' academic performance using a longitudinal fixed-effects regression model to assess the relationship between their grade point average (GPA) and air pollution. The results revealed that, on average, an increase in the percentage of days exceeding different official air quality standards significantly affected students' annual GPA. The study also showed that academic performance among students from families with lower economic resources is disproportionately affected by air pollution. The findings underscore the pressing issue of environmental justice, highlighting that numerous students attend schools in the unhealthy environments of several Chilean cities that frequently bear the burden of socioeconomic disadvantage.
This article delves into the psychological framework of Busemann, focusing on the core principles of balance, character, autonomy and dialogue. It emphasizes how these concepts contribute to the development of personality, the dynamic process of becoming a fully realized individual. According to Busemann, personality evolves through the interaction of personal dispositions, talents, and character, with dialogue playing a crucial role in fostering growth. The paper also examines the phenomenon ofGeborgenheit, understood as a sense of security and inner stability, within this theoretical context.Geborgenheitis framed as an advanced psychological need that emerges once basic needs are satisfied and is deeply tied to both external and internal balance. By analyzing the character of Holden Caulfield in J.D. Salinger’sThe Catcher in the Rye, the article illustrates the challenges of achievingGeborgenheitand suggests practical implications for applying Busemann’s theory to create supportive environments in educational settings.
This commentary outlines a novel agenda for future mindfulness research, building on various authors’ insights, particularly Indius (Indius, S. (2024). Meditation and Self-transcendence: A Human need?Integrative Psychological and Behavioral Science,58(3), 878–883), who integrates Maslow’s hierarchy of needs into the discussion of mindfulness. Indius argues for a revision of humanistic psychology to reflect contemporary needs, emphasizing the dynamic nature of meditation as a transformative process that leads to self-actualization and self-transcendence. This exploration highlights the metaphor of a volcanic eruption to illustrate how meditation can lead to the destruction and subsequent rebirth of psychological needs, fostering a deeper connection to oneself and the environment. Additionally, it examines the interplay of social, material, and cultural contexts in shaping mindfulness practices, suggesting a need for personalization and ecological interconnectedness. The commentary aligns with multiple perspectives presented in the Special Issue, underscoring the necessity of adapting traditional frameworks like Maslow’s to meet evolving cultural and psychological landscapes. Future research pathways include preserving mindfulness breakthroughs, exploring religious worldviews, and integrating social environments into mindfulness studies, ultimately advocating for a holistic understanding of mindfulness as both a process and outcome in the context of human experience.
The willingness to apologize and forgive is robustly associated with relational and personal wellbeing, and thus, it may be worthwhile for children to be taught about the importance of apologies and forgiveness through apology prompting from their parents. However, there is limited research on parental apology prompting, as well as on parental attitudes on the developmental importance of child apologies. Guided by Family System Theory, we investigated whether the proclivity to apologize to and forgive a romantic partner is associated with positive parental attitudes on apologies and parental apology prompting. We also examined the role of childhood experiences with apologies, and moderators of these associations. We recruited a sample of parents of 3–10-year-olds. Parents’ proclivity to apologize to their romantic partner and their childhood experiences with apologies were positively associated with positive parental attitudes on apologies and parental apology prompting. The association between the proclivity to apologize to the romantic partner and parental apology prompting was mediated by positive parental attitudes on the developmental importance of child apologies. The proclivity to retaliate against the romantic partner was negatively associated with positive parental attitudes on apologies and parental apology prompting. Political conservatism and romantic relationship satisfaction moderated the association between the proclivity to apologize to the romantic partner and parental apology prompting. Further, we share measures of childhood experiences with apologies and parental attitudes on apologies that may be useful for future research. Results suggest that it may be advantageous for parent couples to prompt apologies from their children.
Social media has transformed political communication by making it easy to post and free to disseminate information. Interest groups can use social media platforms to direct messages to policymakers and to educate the public about their issues. By providing a platform that can be used by groups regardless of their size or resources, social media expands opportunities for lobbying activities and provides policymakers and the public with information on the interests of a wider and more representative range of groups. To what degree do interest group organizations take advantage of this and what does that advocacy look like? We investigate these questions using an original dataset of nearly 13 million Twitter and Facebook posts from interest groups active in national policymaking in the US. We find that in many ways patterns of lobbying on social media are consistent with how interest groups act in other settings, but that groups seems to view social media as primarily a medium for public education on their issues.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic could have caused both monetary and non-monetary distributional changes, existing studies have only investigated its immediate monetary impacts. This study examines the pandemic’s medium-term impacts on income and well-being inequality using individual longitudinal data from the Japan Household Panel Survey. Gini coefficients and income mobility before and after the pandemic are calculated to analyze income inequality. Various well-being measures such as mental health and life satisfaction are used to analyze well-being inequality. The findings reveal no increase in income inequality. Progressive income growth ensured stable inequality throughout the pandemic. Conversely, on average, well-being worsened, and well-being inequality increased. Furthermore, we find an association between income and well-being inequality. The random-effects and fixed-effects models indicate that the well-being of the high-income group tended to improve, whereas that of the low-income group tended to deteriorate after the outbreak of the pandemic. Additionally, the causal mediation analysis shows that the adoption of remote work served as a factor for the increase in the well-being of people in the high-income group. Remote work became disproportionately prevalent during the pandemic, especially among people in the higher income group. This group experienced various benefits of remote work, which contributed to an improvement in their well-being and an increase in well-being inequality.
Based on the Reserve Capacity Model, this study examined the effect of SES(socioeconomic status) on health status on the health status of menopausal mothers of multicultural families, focusing on mediating effects of self-esteem, assimilation, integration, separation, marginalization, and daily life stress. This is a cross-sectional survey study with secondary analysis of national data on 683 perimenopausal mothers in multicultural families from the 9th Multicultural Adolescents Panel Study surveyed by the Korea Youth Policy Institute in 2019. The subjects were women aged 45–55 years and foreign nationals by origin. For path analysis using observed variables, the Mplus 8.4 program was used. Self-esteem and integration were positively related to health status and negatively related to marginalization and daily life stress. Health status was higher when self-esteem and integration were high, and work-life stress and marginalization were low. To improve the perceived health status of menopausal women in multicultural families, rather than simply focusing on SES through support for employment status and income, it is necessary to improve self-esteem by resolving difficulties caused by SES and cultural adaptation to relieve stress in daily life and to provide multidimensional coping resources that can improve health by lowering risk.
Use of highly visual social media has been shown to be detrimental to body image when containing idealized and unrealistic images, such as “fitspiration” content portraying thin and toned bodies. More recently, social media content that is labelled “body positive” portrays more diverse body shapes and preaches body acceptance and has been shown to improve women’s body image. To date, little is known about the comparative effects of this content on body image when delivered in written versus image form, or how body positive content may influence body image in men. The present study examined the relative effects of body positive and fitspiration quotes and images on body image among women and men, with images selected to target the respective beauty ideals ascribed to women (e.g., thin, toned, small bodies) and men (e.g., hypermuscular bodies). A total of 509 women and 489 men, aged 18–25, were recruited for an online study where they viewed one of five sets of images that targeted the respective beauty ideals for their gender: (1) fitspiration images, (2) fitspiration quotes, (3) body positive images, (4) body positive quotes, or (5) travel images; and completed pre- and post-exposure measures of state appearance satisfaction, body appreciation, appearance comparison, and appearance aspirations. Findings revealed more negative effects of fitspiration images on appearance satisfaction and body appreciation compared to all other conditions, which was true for both women and men. Further, appearance comparison did not emerge as a mediator of these effects, but partial support emerged for the role of appearance aspirations. Discussion centers on the potentially stronger effects of body positive images compared to written content and potential reasons why this was the case for both women and men. The need for more research on the promotion of positive body image in men is considered.
What does the brain mean in a legal domain, and how does integrating neuroscience and law go beyond the practical difficulties highlighted by social scientists and legal theorists? The debate about the confluence of neuroscience and law is both promising and uncertain. Legal theorists took it as a conceptual error, and neuroscience advocates find it a promising emerging field. The social psychological approach towards law is for critical integration of both. Scholars took an alternative route, considering it a fascinating element of scientific discourse. The present article aims to show that the coming of “brain language” in the everyday legal discourse will not become a reality, as truth is inferred through everyday experiences and the interpretations of scientific knowledge. Scientific knowledge through mapping active brain areas by the available brain visualizing techniques shows the correlation between the brain and behavior, not the causation. So, its use in the legal domain seems less institutionalized, showing the determinism of the brain as less authentic in itself when compared with the intuitive path embedded in culture and history. Implication for sociolegal psychology working for dignity and social justice is discussed.
Raymond Aron and Albert Camus have been linked together by Tony Judt as exemplifying “the burden of responsibility,” and have otherwise been classed together as dissenting anti-Communists within French intellectual circles during the Cold War. For all of the significant differences in their personal lives, intellectual orientations, and literary styles, they did indeed seek to uphold a complex ethic of responsibility and integrity in their political and intellectual careers. This ethic was both a reflection and a cause of the sense of solitude that each man endured, or sustained, for much of his life. This essay traces the theme of solitude in their lives and works, from their early political engagements and philosophical ventures in the interwar period, the Occupation, and post-war debates over Communism and decolonization. It also shows how solitude was interwoven in their thinking with ideals of honor, moderation, integrity, and stubborn independence. In showing how Aron and Camus responded to their personal predicaments, the essay suggests that they have much to tell us about how and why we may bear the burden of solitude in political engagement.
ObjectivesLimited evidence is available about the content validity of the EQ-5D-5L in rare skin fragility disorders. Previous research has demonstrated that the skin irritation and self-confidence additional dimensions (bolt-ons) improve the content validity of the EQ-5D-5L in psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. Our aim was to investigate the content validity of the EQ-5D-5L and the two bolt-ons in Darier’s disease and Hailey-Hailey disease.MethodsIn 2023, we conducted qualitative, semi-structured interviews with 15 adult patients at a university dermatology clinic. Patients completed the EQ-5D-5L with two bolt-ons using a think-aloud technique. We used probing questions to explore the relevance, comprehensiveness and comprehensibility. Thematic analysis was applied to analyze the transcripts from the interviews.ResultsMost patients found both the EQ-5D-5L and the two bolt-ons comprehensible and relevant to their disease. All patients preferred the EQ-5D-5L with the two bolt-ons over the EQ-5D-5L alone. Twelve potential missing concepts were identified after the EQ-5D-5L + bolt-ons, but only financial impact and sex life were identified by more than one patient. Only one patient reported a conceptual overlap between the skin irritation bolt-on and the pain/discomfort dimension.ConclusionsOur findings suggest that there is no actionable evidence indicating gaps in the content validity of the EQ-5D-5L with two bolt-ons in Darier’s and Hailey-Hailey disease. Future studies are encouraged to conduct quantitative psychometric testing of the bolt-ons in this and other chronic dermatological patient populations.
Ambivalent homoprejudice theory posits that homoprejudice manifests as hostile and benevolent beliefs that negatively impact LGBTQIA + -identifying individuals. Extensive research has been conducted on the adverse impact of homoprejudice on gay men, both in general and in workplace contexts. However, there has been minimal research on how ambivalent homoprejudice affects lesbian women in the workplace. A significant challenge in this line of research is the absence of a validated scale to measure ambivalent homoprejudice attitudes towards lesbian women. Therefore, in this series of two studies, we developed and provided psychometric support for the Ambivalent Homoprejudice Toward Lesbian Women at Work Scale (AHW-L). Study 1 (N= 266) established the dimensionality of the scale and provided initial evidence of both reliability and validity. Study 2 was conducted to confirm the structure found in Study 1 in a new sample (N= 204) and provided further evidence of reliability and validity. The final validated scale can be used by organizations to identify prejudice in their organization and support the development of targeted interventions. The aim of this scale is to promote and facilitate rigorous research on the workplace experiences of lesbian women.
Little research has examined the role of social class in the long-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on mental well-being. This 4-year longitudinal study in South Korea (N= 86,872; 875,967 responses) assessed well-being before (January 2019 to January 2020) and during (January 2020 to January 2023) the COVID-19 pandemic to determine whetherchangein well-being during this period differed by social class. We expanded the investigation to consider transitions in social class, social distancing measures, and the mechanisms underlying well-being changes according to social class during the pandemic. In particular, we assessed the moderating effects of social class on within-person changes in well-being using conducting multilevel modeling-based analyses in four approaches. First, we found that, while higher-class individuals maintained an average well-being that was higher than that of lower-class individuals, they also experienced a steeper decline in well-being over the course of the pandemic. Relative to their pre-COVID-19 levels, they experienced a significant decrease in well-being in the first, second, and third years of COVID-19, showing no sign of recovery until the pandemic neared its end. Second, this pattern persisted without regard for critical social class transitions following the pandemic: individuals remaining in the higher class during both the pre-COVID-19 and COVID-19 periods experienced significant declines in well-being relative to baseline. Third, higher-class individuals faced larger difficulties in maintaining their well-being, particularly with respect to social distancing measures, while the well-being of lower-class individuals was less affected. Fourth, perceived changes in daily life mediated observed class difference in well-being declines, showing that higher-class individuals experienced greater changes in their daily lives due to COVID-19 than lower-class individuals did, resulting in greater declines in well-being. Taken together, these findings indicate that COVID-19 transformed components of life that are essential for the psychological health of the well-off, providing novel insights into the significant power of social class in the experiences of changes in well-being, going beyond the absolute gap that has been well-established by cross-sectional studies. This indicates the need for class-targeted interventions and policies to support well-being across all socioeconomic strata in future crises.
This study investigates the experiences of young individuals in precarious work using panel data collected from two waves of observations in Taiwan. Through a latent profile analysis of participants in the Taiwan Youth Study, it was found that a significant majority consistently fell into the category of lower-paid workers upon entering the workforce. Furthermore, approximately 10% of the sample were identified as the group of precarious work by the age of 30. To further explore the determinants of three distinct groups (i.e., precarious work, lower-paid work, and high achievers), several hypotheses are proposed. The results support the arguments of credential inflation, firm size, and possession of authority in managerial hierarchies. It is also observed that individuals lacking formal credentials tend to have less job security in the public sector compared to the private sector. These findings align with the perspective of political economy, suggesting that young workers in Taiwan, as seen in other contexts, encounter significant challenges and difficulties in the labor market during their transition to adulthood, despite being part of an economy characterized by rapid economic growth and a lower unemployment rate.
Under Community Sponsorship (CS) responsibility for supporting resettlement is outsourced to private actors. This generally includes responsibility for sourcing housing. Using a lens informed by hospitality and humanitarian reason, this article examines the ‘hospitable relations’ put in play in sponsorship arrangements in the Irish context. It draws on findings from a small-scale consultative study involving members of volunteer sponsor groups, sponsored persons, and stakeholders in professional roles connected to the programme. The findings provide insight into how ‘hospitality’ under CS necessarily involves the constitution of unequal power dynamics which intersect with wider societal dynamics and inequalities. It is argued that outsourcing responsibility for housing to volunteer sponsors potentially reinforces dependency on groups while placing sponsored people in unequal and exploitative relationships with private landlords and that responsibility for sourcing housing under CS should rest with the state.
Many Chinese small business owners often say their success "comes from bitterness," yet few studies explore the nature of such bitterness and its moral and symbolic dimensions. Focusing on the bitterness narratives of Yiwu merchants, through the analysis of oral history materials of 123 interviewees, the research reveals (1) "Trading chicken feathers for sugar" as a "bitterness" event stemmed from the collective economic crisis during the ten years of the Cultural Revolution in Mao's era. (2) The core of "bitterness" revolves around the merchants’ "disembedment" and "(re)embedment" with the social structural relationship. However, (3) Yiwu merchants perceived their fluctuating relationships with structures (village collectives, family relatives) as "bitterness." These judgments of bitterness and happiness were formed under the governance of moral values and deeply embedded cultural ideals. In their view, the key to business success is consistently aligning with mainstream moral culture. On the one hand, they value traditional Chinese concepts such as "the association of hardship with success" and "loyalty and attachment to institutional authority." On the other hand, they also prioritize neoliberal values, emphasizing individual competitive abilities and the results they achieve, particularly in the global marketplace. (4) Yiwu merchants' rags-to-riches inspirational stories are accompanied by the symbolic sublimation of “chicken feathers for sugar” from secular to sacred. This sublimation is the result of the multi-agent participation. Focusing on the moral-symbol cultural factors of these small business owners’ structural and economic behavior underlying their bitterness narratives, this study echoes the Strong Cultural Program that calls for cultural relative autonomy.
Nearly half of all marriages in Pakistan are consanguineous, with 29 and 21% of women marrying first cousins on their father’s and mother’s sides, respectively. Despite its high prevalence, little is known about the change over time in consanguineous unions in Pakistan. Examining the patterns of the marriage market is particularly important given the substantial improvement in women’s education as women’s education is associated with the decline in consanguineous unions across the world. Our analysis, based on four waves of nationally representative Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) (1990-91, 2006-07, 2012-13, and 2017-18) of currently married women ages 15–49 shows that the prevalence of consanguineous unions has remained stable over time. In fact, a slight increase in cousin marriages is observed in 2006-07. Further, women’s education is negatively associated with cousin marriages. Historically, men in the country have had higher levels of education than women, leading to common occurrences of hypergamous unions (where the husband is more educated than the wife). However, with the advancement of women’s education over time, there has been an observed increase in educational hypogamy, where the wife is more educated than her husband. However, the rise in educational hypogamy has not changed the marriage market norms related to cousin marriages. Moreover, use of modern contraceptive methods is not associated with consanguineous unions. We found an inverse relationship between the children ever born (so far) and cousin marriages. Women in consanguineous marriages tend to have fewer children than women in non-consanguineous marriages. Contrary to common expectations, women in both hypogamous and hypergamous relationships tend to have more children than women whose spouses have the same level of education as them. Overall, the results show that consanguinity patterns are stable, and there is no evidence that the societal changes such as improvement in women’s education and urbanization over time have led to a substantial decline in cousin marriages in Pakistan.
Despite the global proliferation of democracy over recent decades, many democratic governments are experiencing unprecedented levels of public dissatisfaction. This study examines how various beacons of grievance—economic dissatisfaction, safety concerns, perceptions of corruption, and attitudes toward immigration—influence individuals’ satisfaction with democratic governance in Western Europe. Utilizing nationally representative data from the 2012 European Social Survey and indicators from the Global Terrorism Database, we employ a three-level hierarchical linear model to simultaneously analyze individual, regional, and country-level variables. Our exploratory, non-directional hypothesis posits that there is a statistically significant relationship between these multilevel factors and individuals’ satisfaction with democratic governance in the European Union. The findings reveal that subjective perceptions play a more significant role than objective indicators in shaping satisfaction with democratic governance. Specifically, individuals with positive opinions on immigration and higher trust in their national parliament exhibit increased satisfaction with democratic governance. At the regional level, higher migration rates correlate positively with democratic governance satisfaction, suggesting a complex interplay between objective conditions and personal attitudes. Conversely, while economic concerns at the individual level affect satisfaction, objective economic indicators at the country level, such as the GINI coefficient, yield unexpected results, indicating higher satisfaction in more unequal societies. By integrating these diverse grievances within a unified multilevel model, this research advances the theoretical understanding of democratic resilience and highlights the importance of considering multilevel factors in assessing public opinion. The study underscores the need for policymakers to address both subjective perceptions and objective conditions to enhance satisfaction with democratic governance. It also calls for further research into cross-level interactions and additional regional variables to deepen the understanding of the dynamics influencing public contentment with democratic governance.
Publishing scholarly papers can be difficult and authors may not get their work published due to technical flaws with their writing (e.g., literature review, methodology, results, or discussion). This article provides a self-assessment strategy for writing a quantitative research article. It outlines ten technical aspects of a quantitative research manuscript and provides a checklist for writing and reviewing a journal article. The final section shares recommendations for supporting the writing process. This article is meant to be used by authors, reviewers, and graduate students for creating scholarly writing that gets published in an academic journal.
The term “preferred future” refers to the outcomes a client hopes to achieve through psychotherapy. Collaborative goal setting is a crucial component of many psychotherapy approaches. This article describes the six ways to focus on a preferred future in solution-focused brief therapy: (1) common project, (2) Vision of a preferred future, (3) goal(s), (4) skill(s), (5) values, and (6) small signs of progress. All variants are briefly expounded upon with accompanied case examples. The second part of the article focuses on the transitions from problem descriptions to various forms of work related to a preferred future, and on the transitions among different methods of preferred future conversations. The primary purpose of this article is to broaden therapists’ strategies when working with preferred futures, enhancing their adaptability in managing these types of conversations with their clients.
We look at how economically divergent siblings in the United States make sense of their economic gaps, highlighting family relationships as an arena in which economic inequalities are experienced and negotiated. Drawing on over sixty in-depth interviews with a racially diverse sample of predominantly middle-class persons who report themselves to be in better economic circumstances than their sibling(s), we examine “sibling difference stories,” or siblings’ explanatory accounts of their economic divergence. We analyze the integration of cultural discourses of inequality into these stories. Siblings deploy a meritocracy discourse of individual responsibility in conjunction with other cultural frames to make sense of economic gaps. These include “Born that Way,” emphasizing inherent differences of ability, and “Birth Order,” about how siblings of different ages experience family life differently due to their age-based location in family structure and history. The “Institutional Failures” frame, prevalent among racial minority siblings, points to the failure of social institutions and policies to provide needed supports to the sibling lagging in achievement. Black, Latino/a, and biracial informants further situate institutional failures within systemic racism. Our study’s relational approach draws attention to the role of intimacy and emotion in how people make sense of inequality.
Black women in the United States experience sexual harassment and violence at rates much higher than do White women, suffering greater psychological and physical harm. We examined how White Racial Identity, race of the female victim, and characteristics of the perpetrator combine to influence White Americans’ willingness to respond in a supportive way toward the sexual harassment complainant (i.e., allyship). White US participants (N= 419) completed a racial identity measure and read about a White male supervisor’s alleged workplace sexual harassment (with violence) of a Black or White female subordinate. The supervisor was portrayed with characteristics to elicit perceptions of high or low supervisor benevolence. As hypothesized and consistent with the aversive racism framework, for the Black complainant only, in the high (but not low) supervisor benevolence condition, stronger White racial identity predicted markedly lower intervention intentions and less supervisor-directed punishment. The effects were mediated by lower perceived complainant suffering. These findings offer insights into the complex dynamics influencing allyship, making White Americans more aware of the factors that may subtly shape their willingness to intervene and offer support for Black women who are victims of interracial sexual harassment, as well informing the development of interventions to produce more equitable treatment of Black women in the workplace.
Cultural sociologists have extensively studied the felicity conditions that make intellectual performances successful and enable intellectuals to drive momentous social transformations through their ideas. However, the dynamics of failed performances remain largely unexplored. In particular, little is known about what happens when intellectuals fail to win the approval of their traditional audiences and instead gain support from those who previously ignored or even despised them. This article examines one such case: Giorgio Agamben’s interventions during the first two years of the Covid-19 pandemic. Drawing on his theories of the state of exception and biopolitics, Agamben sharply criticized the Italian government’s response to the pandemic, which included lockdowns, mask mandates, and vaccination requirements. He portrayed science and medicine as threats to meaningful social life and argued that these measures represented an unprecedented attack on civil liberties. After situating Agamben’s pandemic interventions in the context of his intellectual trajectory, the article analyzes the backlash he faced from traditionally sympathetic audiences and the unexpected support he garnered from right-wing nationalists. The article argues that this shift in audience was not prompted by a change in Agamben’s political or theoretical views, but rather originates in long-term transformations that have affected both the left and the right since the publication of his most celebrated writings.
The starting point of the article is the intense controversy in academia and politics about the definition of antisemitism. A critical review of the various proposed definitions as well as of common typologies of the forms of antisemitism reveals relatively similar problems in determining the subject matter. These problems are particularly evident in the classification of antisemitism directed against Israel. Based on these findings, it is proposed that the definition of antisemitism should be based less on individual stereotypes and more on the underlying basic patterns of anti-Jewish semantics that are common to the different variants of antisemitic world views. These basic patterns can allow for an improved analysis and evaluation of potentially antisemitic statements; the patterns can also be productive when dealing with questions such as the difference between racism and antisemitism, or the ideological specifics of the Shoah.
In this paper, I drew upon the theoretical perspectives on gestures to explore how a teacher used gestures for instructional activities in an early childhood Chinese heritage language classroom. The qualitative data included observations, video recordings of class conversations, and artifacts provided by the participants. All the data were collected from the early childhood classroom at a Chinese heritage language school in a city in the southwestern United States city. The findings show how the teacher used gestures to “write” each Chinese character to prepare the children for their writing practices. The findings also show that the teacher strategically displayed knowledge and engaged the children in meaning-making and reviewing previous lessons through different types of gestures. The conclusions include a review of the teacher’s use of gestures for instructional purposes, such as facilitating meaning-making and preparing the young heritage language learners for their writing practice. The conclusions also included the significance of the research by highlighting the contribution to early childhood heritage language education. Specifically, the study helps contribute to the literature on the use of gestures for supporting children’s language learning and provides recommendations for heritage language teachers to consider using different gestures as pedagogical methods.
Sociodemographic patterns and determinants of concern for air pollution are critical to understand given the health benefits of clean air. Yet little evidence exists on group differences in health-specific concern over time and behaviors related to the health consequences of polluted air. We use data from Houston, Texas, to describe how individual sociodemographic characteristics and the local environmental context correlate with health concern for air pollution over two decades, and we estimate associations between health conditions and mitigation behaviors. Findings come from regression analyses of 11 population-representative, cross-sectional surveys conducted between 2000 and 2022 (N= 14,986). Results reveal a secular decline in health concern over the two-decade period, greater concern in communities with high PM2.5 levels, and patterned differences by race, gender, and political party. Differences in health concern by race and political party persisted in mid-2000s and peaked in the late 2010s, while gender differences were evident in the early 2000s and have since narrowed. From the most recent survey, we document positive associations between respiratory health conditions and mitigation behaviors, such as air purifier use. Together, this article offers novel insights into dynamic patterns and correlates of health concerns for air pollution, which can point policymakers and public health officials toward effective messaging strategies to combat the effects of pollutants for population health.
Systematic cross-national analyses of political debates on the admission of refugees and asylum seekers require a theoretically coherent and empirically comprehensive typology of frames and arguments used. The paper proposes such a typology of frames and arguments used by governments, opposition parties and social movements in public debates on the admission of refugees. We argue that the collective identity and characteristics of the receiving country on the one hand and refugees’ characteristics on the other constitute the key dimensions to which frames in political discourse about the admission of refugees refer. We distinguish between six different frames – economic, cultural, moral, legal, security-related and international – of how the “we” and the “others” can be interpreted. Furthermore, we specify typical arguments associated with the respective frames for or against the admission of refugees. Given that the typology was developed based on a discourse analysis of a very diverse set of countries, including some of the so-called “Global South”, we claim that it can be used to analyze political debates on the admission of refugees in other countries as well and can thus contribute to an accumulation of knowledge.
Sociologists have long debated the extent to which their discipline is a science. Donald Black harbored no doubts on this issue. For Black, sociology was the science of social life, distinct from other human sciences, such as biology and psychology. He found inspiration and exemplars for sociology in science, especially at its highest levels, including the importance many renowned scientists have placed on the role of beauty in their work. At various times, scientists have spoken of beautiful hypotheses, beautiful experiments, beautiful methods, beautiful mathematics, and, especially, beautiful theories. Black echoed that sentiment, arguing that the most important theories are beautiful because reality itself is beautiful. This paper documents the central role of aesthetics in Black’s sociology. It traces the role of factors such as simplicity, symmetry, and elegance in five aspects of Black’s work: his use of language and numbers, his concepts, explanatory paradigm, and substantive theories. The beauty of Black’s corpus provides both an example and a challenge to future generations of sociologists.
ObjectiveTo evaluate whether Covid-19 related workflow changes to a clinically-integrated breastfeeding peer counseling (ci-BPC) program were associated with poorer breastfeeding outcomes for Medicaid-enrolled patients.MethodsThis retrospective chart review included patients who received ci-BPC care during January 2017-March 2020 (“Pre-Pandemic,”N= 318); March 2020-September 2020 (“During-Peak,”N= 53); and September 2020-May 2021 (“Post-Peak,”N= 97). ANOVA evaluated differences in encounter type frequencies for each time point, as well as differences in breastfeeding initiation, exclusivity during inpatient admission, and continuation of breastfeeding at least 6 weeks post-delivery.ResultsIn-person prenatal counseling significantly decreased from Pre-Pandemic to During-Peak (43.9–8.2%,p< 0.05). Breastfeeding at 6 weeks postpartum significantly increased from the Pre-Pandemic cohort to the During-Peak cohort (67–85%,p< 0.05), and returned to baseline for the Post-Peak cohort (74%).Conclusions for PracticeCovid-19 related workflow changes for the peer counselor did not decrease breastfeeding outcomes as anticipated.
According to the QBIT theory, consciousness depends on the emergence of macroscopic coherence in a specific intracellular substrate which registers and processes sensory information. This occurs in a particular neuronal compartment called the axon initial segment which has unique properties not found in other neuronal segments. These unique properties allow the integration of synaptic inputs, amplification of sensory signals, and spontaneous emergence of coherence which is necessary for conscious perception.
This paper is part of a broader research initiative examining algebraic thinking. It presents a case study involving a 4 year-old female student, examining her functional perspective through individual work. Our interest lies in early childhood functional thinking. Specifically, our research objective is to describe how the child completed two tasks involving linear functions and their respective inverse functions. We posed questions related to specific near numbers, specific far numbers, and the generalizations themselves. We gathered data from her individual written work on the two tasks and from an individual interview. We analyzed the strategies she employed to generalize, the representations and generalizations she made, and how she established relationships between variables. We observed that she used pictorial and verbal representations to complete the proposed tasks and successfully achieved generalization. As a strategy, she counted drawings; however, when verbalizing her approach, she created groups of similar elements and innately distributed them into equal groups when working with the inverse function.
Adopting digital extension technologies by smallholder farmers in developing countries, particularly in Africa, is challenging due to various barriers, such as lack of infrastructure, farmers’ low e-literary, and limited access to technology. Our study addresses farmers’ attitudes toward the adoption of new technological approaches to bypass these barriers. We investigated how farmers perceive the paid extension approach and the usefulness of the services proposed. We employed an experimental design conducted in Jigawa and Kano states in Nigeria with a total sample size of 1560 rice farmers selected through a multistage stratified sampling approach. Three distinct paid extension services were randomly assigned to farmers grouped separately as a treatment and a control group. We first subjected the data to reliability, validity, and consistency tests using Cronbach’s Alpha method to test the reliability and then applied the Partial-least Square Structural Equation Modeling method to analyze the data. Depending on the service, there are notable differences in the impact of “perceived usefulness” and “perceived ease of use” on “attitude,” “adoption,” and “actual use” on farmers’ decisions. However, we found that a solid and favorable perception exists of farmers using paid digital extension services. Furthermore, our evidence suggests that price options and payment methods positively influence farmers’ decisions to accept the assigned extension service. Our study contributes foremost to the empirical literature on farmers’ behavior in adopting paid extension services and how much farmers might pay for the proposed service.
The child tax credit expansion of 2021 heralded a substantial, albeit temporary, expansion of the social safety net. Despite the breadth of evidence regarding the credit’s effects on population health, there has been little attention to how families experienced and understood it. This study uses semi-structured interviews conducted between March and June 2023 with 22 caregivers living in Maryland that received the credit to fill gaps about how caregivers experienced the expansion and how their understanding of the expansion shaped these experiences. Caregivers, regardless of income, reported that the expanded child tax credit payments provided financial stability in otherwise uncertain times. However, many were confused by the credit’s structure and concerned about its financial implications for their 2022 tax returns, which contributed to financial anxiety and reinforced feelings of mistrust towards the government, particularly among lower- and middle-income caregivers. Although the expanded child tax credit was broadly beneficial, policymakers enacting similar policies in the future should consider distributing funds outside of the federal tax system, which may be confusing for recipients and may contributed to unintended consequences such as financial anxiety.
The author discusses the psychotherapy of a 41-year-old Caucasian man who complained of a somatic symptom characterized as an “energy” that formulated the words, “I’m gay.” A practitioner of yogic philosophy, the patient came to believe that someone—perhaps a priest—had sexually abused him at age 8 or 9. The author assesses the patient’s attachment relationships to his parents and to his Higher Power and then discusses their similarities and differences. The author also discusses the attachment-informed interventions that have propelled the treatment forward, ending the article by posing spiritual and emotional questions that linger in the patient’s ongoing treatment.
Travel serves as a tool for inner transformation, and educational travel is one form of transformational travel. However, despite their recognition as a niche market, educational travelers, such as international students, continue to be understudied, especially from a gender perspective. As gendered differences are observed in tourism research and gender stereotypes originate from culture and family traditions, this study seeks to answer the following research question: How are gender stereotypes experienced within the context of international students’ mobility experience? This research examines the transmission and dynamics of gender stereotypes and its implication on international students’ mobility experience. It explores students’ interaction and level of involvement with gender stereotypes within different social and relational contexts, and the change processes as a result of these dynamics. Thirty-three in-depth semi-structured interviews were carried out with international students from several nationalities who have finished one of the three types of Master’s degree in Tourism, at the University of Girona, Spain. This paper indicates that (a) women and men are still associated under different gender stereotypes, (b) values originating from gender stereotypes evolve according to individuals’ socio-cultural interactions, and (c) these dynamics of gender stereotypes can be experienced under the role of the spectator, spect-actor, and actor.
While the COVID-19 pandemic brought economic uncertainty to many, the literature contains limited information about household alternative financial services used during this time. This study examines how financial circumstances were associated with household rent-to-own product use during the COVID-induced economic downturn, and whether income instability was related to use across income groups. Findings suggest that income drops were strongly associated with rent-to-own use, moreover health insurance, credit record, homeownership, and banking status were also predictors. This study expands the knowledge base regarding the fringe economy participation and household financial well-being and offers steps for future research and policy considerations.
It has been suggested previously that rising economic inequality would push parents to become overly involved in their children’s academic lives. In the present investigation we examined whether parents’ perceptions of economic inequality, in terms of perceived income inequality and perceived job insecurity, is predictive of their school involvement, thereby distinguishing between controlling and autonomy-supportive school involvement. Further, we also tested whether these associations are particularly pronounced among parents facing financial scarcity. To test these hypotheses, we gathered data among 908 parents (58.70% mothers), who filled out questionnaires assessing their perceptions of income inequality and job insecurity, their financial scarcity, as well as their controlling and autonomy-supportive school involvement. Analyses indicated that higher levels of perceived income inequality related to more autonomy-supportive school involvement, whereas higher levels of perceived job insecurity related to more controlling school involvement. Parents’ financial scarcity did not moderate any of the associations, but higher levels of financial scarcity consistently predicted more controlling school involvement. To conclude, these results suggest that both parents’ macro-economic perceptions as well as their personal financial situation shape their child-rearing practices in ways that may potentially perpetuate socio-economic disparities.
Parental employment has long been recognized as a crucial factor influencing children’s well-being, yet limited research has examined the impact of self-employment—an increasingly prevalent form of work globally—on offspring welfare. This study investigates the effects of maternal self-employment on children’s human capital accumulation using nationally representative longitudinal data from the China Family Panel Studies (2014, 2016, and 2018). Employing fixed-effects models, instrumental variable approaches, and nonlinear panel estimations, we find that maternal self-employment positively influences children’s mathematical performance and improves their health outcomes, as evidenced by reduced doctor visits. The beneficial impact is further moderated by maternal education levels and engagement in children’s education. Our findings contribute to the literature on parental employment and child well-being by offering novel insights into how self-employment shapes family dynamics and child development. This research provides important implications for policies supporting women’s employment and promoting child development in contemporary society.
Sexual consent communication can be ambiguous when people rely on nonverbal, implicit cues. This ambiguity can lead to the reliance of contextual information to assess whether a sexual encounter was consensual, both in the moment and retrospectively. The current study examined how level of alcohol consumption, relationship type, and evaluator gender influenced the extent to which various sexual encounters were seen as consensual. Participants read a series of vignettes in which sexual consent was verbally granted, verbally rejected, or inferred using nonverbal cues. The vignettes also manipulated the amount of alcohol consumed by the target of the sexual advances (i.e., sober, tipsy, or intoxicated) as well as the relationship between the dyads (i.e., dating or strangers). Generally, male participants were more likely to interpret all encounters as more consensual. Encounters in which the target was intoxicated were more likely to be interpreted as nonconsensual, but instances when targets were described as tipsy (i.e., she consumed two or less alcoholic beverages) were seen as more consensual than sober encounters. The relationship between the dyads also influenced these perceptions. This work can inform educational efforts geared toward alcohol and sexual consent.
BackgroundMainstream preference-based quality of life (QoL) measures have been traditionally based on Western principles of health. It is critical to examine whether existing preference-based QoL measures capture what is important to Indigenous people while being comprehensive and culturally acceptable. This study aims to assess the content and face validity of the EuroQol-5 dimensions 5-levels (EQ-5D-5 L), 12-item short form survey (SF-12), assessment of quality of life–6 dimensions (AQoL-6D), and recovering quality of life 10-item (ReQoL-10) within the context of indigenous youth mental health.MethodsEight individual yarns and five yarning circles were conducted with 20 indigenous young people aged 15˗25 years, with a history of at least 1 mental health problem in the Perth and Bunbury regions of Western Australia. The measures were explored in random order using the yarning approach, and then ranked by relevance by participants. Data were analysed using thematic and constant comparative approaches.ResultsThe face and content validity of each preference-based QoL instrument was summarised into four themes: (1) appropriateness, (2) comprehensiveness, (3) comprehensibility, and (4) layout and format. The ReQoL-10 emerged as a more suitable measure due to its mental health focus, clear response options, and well-designed layout and format. While some positive comments were made about the other measures, there were critical issues around their content and face validity. Our data revealed a clear preference for the ReQoL.ConclusionThe ReQoL-10 appears to be a promising measure in the context of indigenous youth mental health, and was explicitly preferred by indigenous youth.
PurposeThe association between cardiovascular health (CVH) with perceived quality of life (PQoL) and variations by sex and Hispanic ethnicity is not well understood.MethodsThis study included 583 participants (42% Hispanic, 56% female, mean age 59 years). Linear regression modeled the covariate-adjusted associations between CVH, using the combined 7 components of Life’s Simple 7 (LS7; ideal and intermediate, compared to poor), and PQoL (total and physical, social, and cognitive health domains). For individual LS7 components, we assessed effect modification by sex and Hispanic ethnicity.ResultsCompared to individuals with poor CVH, those with intermediate (β [95% CI] = 0.22 [0.09, 0.35]) and ideal (β [95% CI] = 0.22 [0.08, 0.36]) CVH had higher overall PQoL. This effect was dominated by the physical PQoL domain. Of LS7 components, ideal body mass index (BMI) (β [95% CI] = 0.17 [0.03, 0.31]) and physical activity (β [95% CI] = 0.26 [0.12, 0.40]) were associated with overall PQoL. Ideal diet (β [95% CI] = 0.32 [0.08, 0.56]) and fasting plasma glucose (β [95% CI] = 0.32 [0.06, 0.58]) were associated with the physical PQoL domain. A higher PQoL score was associated with intermediate BMI in women, and physical PQoL was associated with smoking for women. A BMI*Hispanic interaction resulted in larger associations between intermediate/ideal BMI and physical PQoL in non-Hispanics.ConclusionIdeal or intermediate CVH health factors and health behaviors were associated with higher PQoL. Sex and ethnicity differences suggest that perceived quality of life is associated with BMI for women and non-Hispanics.
Low-wage labor migrants experience major human and working rights abuses in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries despite national labor laws and signatures to various human rights conventions. On paper, India has established an institutional framework of transnational social protection for its officially estimated 5.5 million low-wage workers migrating to the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, e.g., financial emergency support, repatriation services, and walk-in centers. However, migrants in low-wage employment often cannot access substantive social rights in practice. Indian upper/middle-class migrant civil society groups mediate their access to Indian embassies’ services and the destination countries’ state institutions. The realization of social rights via informal, third-party representation stems from a representational disjuncture between low-wage labor migrants and the Indian state, which is rooted in their historical socioeconomic marginalization, limitations of the formal political system, and the constitutive role of informality in shaping and structuring citizen-state interactions in India. Through the lens of Piper and von Lieres’ (2015) concept of mediated citizenship and based on data from semi-structured interviews and participant observation of migrant support networks in the Gulf countries, this article examines why mediation takes place and how volunteers speak and take action for marginalized migrants in low-wage employment and consequences of mediation. It argues that migrant volunteer organizations and individuals are powerful stakeholders in the migration governance in the GCC region, as they possess leverage over who has (better) access to state institutions and the provision of social and human rights. Their status as intermediaries underlines the disaggregation of Indian citizenship along class and caste lines, which can be (mis)-used by mediators to pursue their interests, resulting in ambiguous effects. The article contributes to perspectives on migration governance in the GCC region, transnational social policies, and migrant volunteering.
American research universities experienced fragmentation and decline following the populist uprising of the mid-2020s. This article examines the causes and consequences of the academic reformation, analogizing the weaknesses of research universities in the 2020s to the weaknesses of the Roman Catholic Church of the sixteenth century. The article highlights several ruinous trends dating from the 2010s. These included high costs, the rise of just-in-time learning, and socio-political initiatives that alienated large segments of the public. The article discusses the benefits and costs of the academic reformation and what changes could have been put in place to prevent the decline of American research universities during the period.
Previous research has predominantly concentrated on school-related factors in adolescent bullying victimization, often overlooking the "cycle of victimization" stemming from parental punishment at home. Moreover, the mechanisms linking parental harsh punishment to bullying victimization have not been sufficiently investigated. This study aimed to investigate the association between parental harsh punishment and bullying victimization, as well as the mediating roles of cooperation and trust. Additionally, the present study sought to make cross-cultural comparisons by testing the moderating effects of collectivism versus individualism. A sample of 50,355 adolescents, with a mean age of 13.11 years (50.70% boys), from nine countries was obtained from the Study on Social and Emotional Skills. The moderated mediation mode was conducted using the SPSS macro PROCESS. Parental harsh punishment was positively associated with bullying victimization. Higher levels of parental harsh punishment were linked to decreased cooperation and trust, which in turn contributed to increased bullying victimization. The associations between parental harsh punishment and both cooperation and trust were more pronounced among adolescents living in individualist cultures than among those in collectivist cultures. This study advanced our understanding of the mechanisms linking parental harsh punishment and adolescent bullying victimization, and it has implications for intervention strategies.
This paper focuses on the evolutionary mechanism of social emotions, such as panic, anxiety, and depression, during the COVID-19 pandemic by using big data from the internet, including Twitter and GDELT, and by incorporating factors related to risk communication and risk response in risk governance. The main negative emotions experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic include panic, anxiety, and depression. These negative emotions primarily erupted on a large scale during the initial phase of the first wave of the epidemic, whereas the fluctuations in negative emotions during subsequent resurgences were significantly smaller. This paper explains the evolution of panic and depression through analytical frameworks based on threat perception and coping efficacy, as well as social pressure and social support. The fluctuations in negative emotions around the world exhibit both similarities and diversities, which are closely related to the diversity of pandemic response models and cultural characteristics across different regions. The findings of this study have important implications for emergency management and the guidance of social mentality.
This article invites a dialogue between decolonial perspectives on diasporas and feminist standpoint theories by exploring processes of standpoint formation by women of Moroccan descent who grew up in postcolonial France. The article draws on 18 interviews with women aged in their 20s to their 40s, as well as a long-term engagement with these questions through ‘patchwork ethnography’. While emphasising that these women were neither exposed to identical experiences nor have the same worldviews, the article shows that they have navigated a set of shared experiences that pertain to their social position and that they are thus aware of the manifestations in their everyday lives and of the workings of gendered and racialised social hierarchies that affect them. The article explores participants’ experiences of racism and of its gendered inflections; the formation of ‘shared angles of visions’ (Hill Collins,1997) around specific issues as a result; and finally, participants’ assessments of the different terms used to describe them in public and in everyday discourses. The article seeks to contribute to thinking through empirically the formation of an epistemological standpoint at the crossroads of feminist and decolonial approaches.
Cannabis is a popular leisure activity in many cultures, especially in North America and Europe, where it is commonly used for socializing and entertainment. A recent German study employed the Marijuana Motives Measure to survey young adults, analyzing four motivational factors in the context of casual leisure. The research aimed to understand the reasons behind adults’ daily cannabis use, its link to consumption frequency, and situations. The findings highlight cannabis use for hedonic pleasure, relaxation, and enhancing social experiences. Individuals driven by self-focused motives, seeking relaxation and hedonic pleasure, tend to use it more frequently, while other-focused motives, such as sociable conversation, are associated with less frequent and occasional consumption. The study further revealed that people who consume cannabis for self-focused motives typically do so alone or with someone at home, whereas those who use it for other-focused motives, such as sociable conversation, tend to do so in social settings.
Shame significantly influences identity formation, often undermining one’s sense of self. Since the exacerbation of racial discrimination against Asian Americans during the COVID-19 pandemic, Asian American youth have struggled with increased incidents of anti-Asian hate and significant psychological impacts. This paper explores the intersection of racial discrimination and identity formation among Asian American youth, focusing on how experiences of shame influence their sense of self. It examines the historical context of Asian American identity struggles, using contemporary literature, particularly Gene Luen Yang’sAmerican Born Chinese. Building on Donald Capps’s theories on shame and self-identity, the paper examines the relationship between shame and the challenges of selfhood. It further considers how embracing shame can empower individuals to reclaim their authentic selves, drawing on Jesus’s experiences with shame in his childhood and on the cross. Ultimately, it explores ways Asian American youth might embrace their experience of shame and vulnerability to promote their self-identity.
This study explores the dynamics of Intimate Partner Violence dynamics and the help-seeking experiences of immigrant women during the COVID-19 Pandemic in Portugal through an intersectional framework. Despite ample literature on intimate partner violence, few studies have explicitly focused on the compounded challenges faced by immigrant women during a global health crisis. Through qualitative research, we conducted 17 semi-structured interviews with immigrants who experienced intimate partner violence during the pandemic. Data was analyzed using thematic analysis. The results reveal that the pandemic exacerbated violence dynamics, with most participants reporting an increase in violence and a diversification in its types. Additionally, the coping mechanisms employed by victims were often ineffective in mitigating this violence. Regarding help-seeking, the study identified five main barriers, highlighting the role of cultural barriers, isolation, lack of knowledge about available resources, economic dependency, and fear of legal repercussions. These barriers compounded the difficulties faced by victims in accessing support. This research reinforces the transversal impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the lives of immigrant women who faced intimate partner violence, emphasizing the need to adopt an intersectional approach that addresses the unique challenges faced by this vulnerable population. Actions needed include culturally tailored educational campaigns to raise awareness of violence and available resources, community-building initiatives to reduce isolation, and policy reforms to improve the accessibility and responsiveness of support services for this population.
Does philosophy need to study its own history? Yes, but for nonhistoricist reasons. Regardless of when, where, and why they were written; what texts influenced them; and what influence they subsequently exerted, some works of the past have enduring value that transcends the particulars of their time and place. They are, to use an unfashionable word, “great.” Introduction introduces this thesis by considering Leo Strauss’s arguments against historicism and his conception of a nonhistoricist reading of the history of philosophy. Using Aristotle as an exemplar, Poetry Is More Philosophical Than History and Epistemic Access to Nonhistorical Universals elaborate on what this might mean. A Great Book builds on their results in order to examine the notion of a “great book,” a phrase that only makes sense if nonhistoricist thought is deemed possible.
La Guajira, a department in northern Colombia, faces significant socioeconomic challenges, including high poverty levels and marginalization. This study aims to analyze the socioeconomic marginalization of municipalities in La Guajira, Colombia, by identifying key factors contributing to their vulnerability. Using Principal Component Analysis, the paper examines 21 socioeconomic indicators derived from the 2018 National Population and Housing Census conducted by the National Administrative Department of Statistics to uncover the multidimensional aspects of marginalization. The findings reveal three main dimensions of marginalization related to household socioeconomic disadvantages, infrastructure and basic services deficiencies, and ethnic and physical vulnerabilities. Municipalities are grouped into three clusters based on these dimensions using Cluster Analysis, highlighting stark differences between them, particularly the northern areas with indigenous communities. The results provide a foundation for targeted policies to address the unique socioeconomic issues of municipalities in La Guajira.
PurposeWe investigated the validity of the German and Spanish translations of 35 new high functioning items added to the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS®) Physical Function item bank 2.0. We assessed differential item functioning (DIF) between three general population samples from Argentina, Germany, and the United States.MethodsPROMIS Physical Function data was collected in online panels from 3601 individuals (mean age, 41.6 years old; range, 18–88 years; 53.7% female). Of these, 1001 participants completed the Spanish version, 1000 completed the German version, and 1600 completed the English version. DIF was assessed by a multiverse analysis that systematically varied analytic choices across the entire range of plausible options within the logistic ordinal regression framework.ResultsTranslated items generally met the assumptions of unidimensionality, monotonicity, and local independence. The 272 different analyses suggest consistent DIF between languages in four items. Test characteristic curves suggested that the magnitude and impact of DIF on the test scores were negligible for all items at the test level. After correcting for potential DIF, we observed greater scoring for physical functioning in Argentina compared to the US, Cohen’sd= 0.25, [0.17, 0.33], and Argentina compared to Germany, Cohen’sd= 0.23, [0.15, 0.32].ConclusionsOur findings support the universal applicability of PROMIS Physical Function items across general populations in Argentina, Germany, and the U.S. The sensitivity analyses indicate that the identification of DIF items was robust for different data analytic decisions. Multiverse analysis is a promising approach to address lack of clear cutoffs in DIF identification.
Extensive policy and practice attention aims to support young people as they seek to achieve educational and career goals yet there are widely varying trajectories toward these goals that reflect individual preferences and social inequalities. This study reports findings from qualitative interviews with 16 young adults currently enrolled in a primarily vocational pathway at a community college and who had prior involvement with child welfare, juvenile justice or mental health systems. Using a narrative approach, respondents described their career and educational pathways including their current status, antecedents, and future trajectory. Key factors that have impacted their pathway include their initial vocational interests, messages from within their social networks, and impacts of work and family life on educational goals. Study results have implications for better supporting young people with system involvement to identify and achieve their educational and career goals.
This study analyzes the measurement of income and wealth inequalities in samples with negative values. The Gini coefficient can exceed one when negative values represent a large share of the sample. A perfect concentration with non-negative values attains a Gini coefficient of one; thus, interpreting a Gini coefficient greater than one is difficult. Existing methods of deleting negative values or replacing them with zeros underestimate the inequality level. Alternative methods of normalizing the Gini coefficient to restrict it between zero and one cannot satisfy the basic requirements of an inequality index. Moreover, both methods distort inequality comparisons over time and across countries. This study analytically shows the theoretical drawbacks of extant methods and proposes measuring the standard Gini coefficient using an unadjusted sample, even when the sample contains negative values and the Gini coefficient exceeds one. This study also proposes generalizing the concentration such that it attains the same Gini coefficient value and is more severely concentrated than the perfect concentration with non-negative values. To facilitate the interpretation of a Gini coefficient greater than one, we can compare the generalized and perfect concentrations and infer the amount of transfer from one to the other. Finally, this study shows that the extant methods may cause a sizable distortion in inequality comparison over time for the U.S. net worth.
This study investigated the associations among acculturative family distancing in communication and values, family conflicts (parent-adolescent conflict, interparental conflict), and depressive symptoms and the mediating effects of family conflicts in the associations between acculturative family distancing in communication and values, and depressive symptoms in KA adolescents. Path analysis was used to analyze data from a cross-sectional survey of 339 Korean American adolescents (Mage = 14.99, SD = 1.67; 53% female) residing in New York City and New Jersey. Measurements include the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression (CES-D) Scale, Acculturative Family Distancing Youth Report Scale (AFD-YR), the Family Conflicts Scale (FCS), and the Children’s Perception of Interparental Conflict Scale. All path coefficients for the final model were statistically significant. There were significant mediating effects of parent-adolescent conflict and interparental conflict on the associations between acculturative family distancing in communication and values and depressive symptoms. The study suggests acculturative family distancing may be a contextual risk factor for depressive symptoms among KA youth. Additionally, greater acculturative family distancing may erode the strength and quality of family relationships. One of the objectives of this study was to test the AFD theory which identifies more problematic dimensions of intergenerational acculturation gap that increase risk for family conflict. The findings of the current study not only support but also build on the AFD theory by examining its relationship to both interparental and parent-adolescent conflicts.
This study aimed to observe contraceptive access, including types of contraceptives and level of use, among girls and young adults living in foster care following a state policy insurance change. This cohort study utilized linked, state administrative data to analyze child welfare and Medicaid claims data of 1641 female foster youth in Michigan. Oral tablets with a supply of 30 days before exhaustion was the most frequently prescribed contraceptive (77%), while injections, implants, and intrauterine devices (IUDs) that have longer periods of use before exhaustion were rarely prescribed. Longer-term use products were prescribed with decreased frequency in the Medicaid Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) period than in the Medicaid Fee for Service (FFS) period. Foster youth placed in residential care experienced greater access to contraceptive care than those placed in family-based settings (Adjusted Odds Ratio = 0.63, 95% CI = (0.56–0.72)) and those living independently (Adjusted Odds Ratio = 0.55, 95% CI = (0.48–0.64)). Those in the largest urban county had less access (Adjusted Odds Ratio = 0.81, 95% CI = (0.71–0.92)) to contraceptives than those from other counties in the State. Implications for policy and practice are discussed.
This study examined the treatment efficacy of multiple family narrative therapy (MFNT) on psychological well-being and parent-child relationship among Chinese families of children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in Hong Kong. ADHD highly affects the academic performance of children and causes stress from its symptoms and medication side effects, while parents struggle to align their children’s needs with school and social expectations. Randomized control trial by site was adopted. A total of 61 families were randomized into the treatment group and the waitlist control group. Assessments were made at pre-intervention and post-intervention, and a 3-month follow-up assessment was made to assess the sustainability of the effects. Participants demonstrated significant reduction in parents’ psychological distress (p=.047), child-perceived parental rejection (p=.015), and paternal overprotection (p=.001). However, no significant results were observed on parental stress, guilt and shame, and parent-perceived parent-child relationships. As conventional support in Hong Kong for families raising children with ADHD primarily focuses on children’s behavioral performance, MFNT establishes crucial groundwork for promoting psychological well-being, addressing intrafamilial needs, and enhancing parent-child relationships through a shift in parental perceptions of ADHD. Limitations and recommendations for future studies are discussed.
Research on men and masculinities is increasingly concerned with contemporary transformations in the way men understand and “do” gender. In particular, burgeoning paradigms like the hybrid masculinities framework have called attention to diverse patterns of practice among men that are seemingly at odds with traditional iterations of hegemonic masculinity. We conceptualize one component of this practice as a concerted process of “strategic masculine disinvestment.” Using new, nationally representative survey data pertaining to men living in the United States, we ask two novel questions about this phenomenon that have not been addressed at the population level. First,whodisinvests from traditional masculinity? While masculine distancing tends to be observed among privileged men in qualitative studies, a comprehensive view of which men engage in this practice within the general population is absent from the literature. Secondly, how are contemporary transformations of gender like strategic masculine disinvestment associated with psychosocial functioning? Findings suggest that strategic masculine disinvestment is more common among young and college educated men, but is not necessarily unique to unilaterally privileged men. In fact, men experiencing financial strain are especially likely to disinvest from masculinity. We also observe that strategic masculine disinvestment is consistently associated with poorer psychosocial functioning, including lower levels of mastery and higher levels of anger, anxiety, depression, and non-specific psychological distress. We conclude with a discussion of the theoretical and practical implications of these findings for studies of men and masculinities and of contemporary transformations of gender more generally.
PurposeTo demonstrate the process and results of an equity analysis of a reproductive health association.DescriptionA series of quantitative surveys and qualitative interviews were conducted with employees of Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts (PPLM), assessing different aspects of equity. Amaka Consulting and Evaluation Services, LLC, an external consulting agency, analyzed the results and provided recommendations for improvements.AssessmentBetween 25% and 33% of the employees identified as Black, Indigenous, and people of color (BIPOC). Staff expressed a high degree of satisfaction with the organization’s alignment to its mission and commitment to equity. Turnover was higher among BIPOC employees, and employees of color were less likely to say they had confidence in senior management. Themes that arose frequently in surveys included the need for increased communication around equity action steps, greater accountability, and work environment issues. Qualitative interviews indicated acknowledgment of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) efforts but feeling that they were not as legitimate as they could be and vocalized a need for more equitable hiring. Recommendations for improvements included tracking feedback around social movements; conducting equity impact assessments; supporting staff through salary, opportunities for advancement, and better supervision; requiring management to attend equity initiatives, and creating equity resources for staff.ConclusionThis study provides a template for other evaluations of equity. Similar to other organizations in the field, this equity analysis suggests that PPLM had a stronger commitment to certain aspects of DEI than others, and that there was a need for improvement in several areas, particularly hiring and management.
Limited data are available on the characteristics and outcomes both of people who have and who have not had an abortion. Administrative data sources contain information on aggregate abortion counts and some demographic characteristics describing individuals who had an abortion but not on those who did not have an abortion. They are therefore of limited use for analyzing the characteristics, reproductive behaviors, and attitudes associated with abortion risk. Direct questions in population representative surveys yield downwardly biased estimates of abortion and likely differential underreporting of abortion by socio-demographic characteristics. In the present study, we evaluate the effectiveness of an indirect survey method, the list experiment, for improving estimates of abortion risk and differentials in population-representative surveys. We estimate cumulative-lifetime abortion incidence in 2017 and five-year incidence in 2021 using two cross-sectional surveys administered in Delaware and Maryland and evaluate the five-year estimates against external benchmarks from administrative data. We use multivariate regression with the list-experiment data to examine abortion incidence by socio-demographic predictors. We find that list-experiment estimates of five-year abortion incidence are similar to estimates calculated from external data: that cumulative lifetime abortion incidence increases monotonically with age, and that five-year incidence is inverse U-shaped. Black adults are found to be much more likely to have had an abortion both in the past five-years and over the reproductive lifetime, before and after controlling for age, parity, relationship status, education, and household income. We conclude positively about the validity and utility of the list experiment method.
This study explores the influence of family firms’ socioemotional wealth (SEW) purpose and cash flow on their environmental contributions. It uses data from 754 publicly listed and over-the-counter family firms in Taiwan from 2016 to 2022. Following previous research, SEW is distinguished into focused SEW and broad SEW and cash flow patterns, mapped into firm life cycle stages. Empirical results show focused SEW is negatively correlated with the environmental contribution of family firms, while broad SEW is positively correlated. From a cash flow perspective, during the introduction stage, focused SEW family firms tend to lag in environmental contribution. In the mature stage, focused SEW family firms lead in environmental contribution, while broad SEW family firms lag behind. Empirical evidence suggests that the reference point of family firms is not fixed but changes dynamically as the firm progresses through its life cycle. This study highlights the consideration of SEW by family firms, which depends on their specific life cycle stage.
Research on family business has a long history which is evident in various established theories and practices. Yet, family business sustainability is an underdeveloped area of research. The present study identifies and analyzes the constituents that impact strategic management implementation to achieve sustainability of family firms. This is an empirical study based on a sample of Indian family firms, analyzes using “partial least squares structural equation modeling” (PLS-SEM). Results demonstrate that innovation, competitive advantage, leadership and proactiveness significantly impact strategic management implementation and sustainability of family firms. However, engaging the local community has a negative impact on strategic management implementation and sustainability of family firms. The study makes several contributions to family businesses literature by shedding light on the key factors that foster their future development and sustainability across developed and developing nations. This study offers guidance on strategically organizing and implementing effective sustainability strategies within family firms. This enhancement advances the theoretical understanding and supports practical efforts to ensure family-owned enterprises’ long-term viability and success.
Over recent decades, errors and misbehaviors (E&M) within the banking and finance (B&F) sector have garnered attention from both scholars and practitioners. However, existing knowledge in this area remains fragmented. This paper aims to provide a systematization of existing findings and to develop an integrative framework. We conducted a systematic literature review (SLR) to identify relevant works on this subject (n= 57), with the aim of constructing an integrative framework that delineates potential antecedents and consequences of E&M while also identifying avenues for future research. Research on E&M in the B&F context can be categorized into several strands: individual and/or organizational behaviors, insider trading, oversight by authorities, the influence of national culture, the repercussions for banks’ reputations, and the relevance of digitalization. Our findings underscore the necessity of broadening research methodologies, expanding investigations into management procedures and control mechanisms, delving into the interaction effects among antecedents, and deepening our understanding of the role played by environmental factors.
The focus of this pilot investigation was to determine if the EA Briefing (previously referred to as the EA Brief), could improve self-reported and observed emotional availability (EA) as well as maternal wellbeing. Participants in this study were mothers and their children, including infants, preschoolers, school-aged children, and adolescents. All assessments were administered prior to and at the end of the intervention. These assessments included the observational Emotional Availability (EA) Scales, the Emotional Availability Self-Report (EA-SR), and the Flourishing Scale. During the intervention, mother-child dyads were in their homes and filmed via Zoom. Each mother completed a single, short, individualized parent feedback and coaching session and received information about emotional availability, attachment, and mindfulness. Results examined differences between the groups and indicated that those who received the intervention showed more improvement in observed EA and self-reported EA than those who did not. Additionally, parent-child dyads of all age groups in the study demonstrated improvements. This suggests that the EA Briefing may be relevant for a wider age range of children than have previously participated. The study may also encourage other attachment-based interventions to examine their effectiveness with older children.
Previous work has explored the bi-directional relation between alcohol consumption and gambling behavior within gambling contexts, highlighting the role of salient factors such as mood. The present experiment sought to further explore how mood state and the urge to consume alcohol vary as a function of the experience of winning or losing while gambling. In this experiment, 76 individuals who reported past year gambling and past month alcohol use were randomly assigned to one of four conditions – neutral gambling, winning gambling, losing gambling, or movie watching. Results indicated that mood state did not significantly differ by experimental condition. However, the urge to consume alcohol significantly differed by experimental condition when accounting for weekly alcohol consumption. Individuals who underwent a losing gambling experience reported significantly greater alcohol-related urges than those who watched a movie or had a neutral gambling experience, but not compared to those who had a winning gambling experience. Exploratory analyses showed that those exposed to a losing gambling experience wanted a significantly greater number of drinks than those who had a neutral gambling experience or watched a movie. These results suggest that experiencing losing may contribute to a greater desire to consume alcohol, and that this relation may occur independent of mood states associated with gambling outcomes. Future research should seek to investigate the relations between gambling, alcohol use, and mood in naturalistic gambling settings beyond the laboratory.
PurposeAnal fissures and anorectal fistulas are diseases often associated with significant pain and prolonged discomfort, resulting in a significantly reduced quality of life (QoL). They are not only a surgical problem but also have a profound psychosocial impact and influence on QoL. The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence of depression in patients with these pathologies and to highlight the need to address the psychosocial aspects of these diseases.MethodsData from the Disease Analyzer database of approximately 3,000 general practitioners in Germany were retrospectively analyzed. The retrospective cohort study included patients aged ≥ 18 years diagnosed with anal fissure (n = 15,467) or anorectal fistula (n = 3,520) between January 2005 and December 2022 and propensity score matched individuals without these disorders (n = 94,935). The primary outcome was a diagnosis of depression within five years of the index date. Kaplan–Meier curves and Cox regression analyses were used to analyze the association between the two anorectal diseases and depression.ResultsAfter 5 years of follow-up, 13.0% of patients with anal fissure and 12.3% of patients with anorectal fistula were diagnosed with depression, compared with 9.7–10.3% in the control group (p < 0.001). Cox regression analysis showed a significant association between both diseases and depression (anal fissure: HR: 1.31; 95% CI: 1.25–1.38; anorectal fistula: HR: 1.30; 95% CI: 1.17–1.44).ConclusionThe results suggest that anal fissures or anorectal fistulas are significantly associated with a subsequent depression. This highlights the importance of multidisciplinary management that addresses both physical and psychosocial aspects to improve patient outcomes.
ObjectivesThe specific aims of the project are: (1) Examine the impact of COVID-19 on pregnancy experiences and outcomes; (2) Examine the mental health impact of COVID-19 in pregnant women and mothers of children 12 months or younger; (3) Identify risk and protective factors among this population in Puerto Rico.MethodsParticipants were recruited from the Puerto Rico Team for Exploring Contamination Threats (PROTECT) Superfund Program, which is composed of pregnant women and mothers from the northern karst region of Puerto Rico. The research had a mixed methods approach with a quantitative survey (n = 184) and qualitative interviews (n = 10); data collection was done in virtual mode.ResultsFindings from the qualitative interviews highlight the experiences regarding access to healthcare services, pregnancy and birth experiences, social support, and mental health during the pandemic among women with young children. These narratives serve to illustrate the particular challenges and opportunities that the participants faced during the year 2021 in regard to maternal health in Puerto Rico.Conclusions for PracticeCOVID-19 restrictions impacted the experiences in receiving healthcare services, particularly regarding the birthing process and the participants’ mental health. Social support, particularly from family, was found to be a protective factor for facing the challenges during pandemic times. We expect that the findings can lead to the development of interventions for community health centers, prenatal clinics, non-governmental organizations, and parents/caretakers in Puerto Rico.
BackgroundThe objective of this study was to assess the content validity of the EQ-5D-5L and four bolt-ons: skin irritation, self-confidence, social relationships and sleep, for people with atopic dermatitis (AD) and chronic urticaria (CU).MethodsAdults with AD or CU in the United Kingdom, with varying levels of severity, participated in either online or in-person semi-structured interviews. During the interviews, participants were first asked about the symptoms and impacts of their condition. They were then asked to complete the EQ-5D-5L and four bolt-ons using ‘think-aloud’ and retrospective probing. Interviews were recorded, transcribed, then analysed using content and thematic analysis.ResultsThirty participants (N= 15 with AD;N= 15 with CU) were interviewed. Participants spontaneously reported itch (AD: 100%; CU: 93%), self-confidence (AD: 100%, CU: 47%), sleep (AD: 53%; CU: 53%), and social relationships (AD: 27%; CU: 60%). The skin irritation bolt-on was the most important or relevant dimension for 60% of AD and 73% of CU participants. For all participants, skin irritation and self-confidence bolt-ons improved the EQ-5D-5L’s comprehensiveness. Social relationships was more frequently ranked as the least relevant among the other bolt-ons.ConclusionsThis study assessed the content validity of four EQ-5D-5L bolt-ons within two patient populations. Skin irritation, self-confidence and sleep bolt-ons showed good evidence of content validity for people with AD and CU, providing support for their application in other skin conditions. The value of a social relationships bolt-on was less clear. Quantitative psychometric research is recommended to further support the use of bolt-ons in CU and AD.
Sexual and gender diverse youth and young adults (SGDY) experience significant mental health disparities compared to non-SGDY and lack access to culturally responsive mental health supports. Limited literature on affirmative interventions for SGDY exists. As part of a larger pilot study, the present qualitative study sought to understand the experiences of SGDY who received the Tuned In! intervention to explore its potential benefit in supporting SGDY mental health. Tuned In! is a virtual affirmative mindfulness-based intervention, co-created with and for SGDY. SGDY (16–29 yrs.) were recruited from Connecticut to participate in the intervention via social media advertisements, and were invited to follow-up virtual focus groups after completing the intervention. Twenty-five SGDY participated in four virtual focus groups, with an additional 12 SGDY providing written feedback. The following overarching research questions guided this study: (1) What are the experiences of SGDY participating in the Tuned In! intervention? (2) What specific improvements are needed to provide enhanced support for SGDY participating in the Tuned In! intervention? Reflexive thematic analysis revealed three overarching themes: (1) mindfulness and self-compassion can support SGDY well-being, (2) spaces that cultivate SGDY community, and (3) the importance of diversity, safety, inclusion, and accessibility. Findings suggest Tuned In! can support SGDY mental health, which points to practical recommendations for future evaluation and implementation of affirmative mindfulness-based interventions for SGDY.
In contrast to the international context of residential care and the preference for family based care, residential care in Portugal is the only option for most young people in the child protection system. Despite this, research in Portugal has yet to focus on Therapeutic Residential Care (TRC) and has rarely considered the narratives of young people. By adopting the conceptual framework proposed by Farmer et al. (2017) and focusing on five critical domains (Setting, Staffing, Treatment Approach, Safety, and Milieu Factor), we aimed to identify a subset of factors that contribute to youth improvement. This convergent parallel mixed methods study involved conducting semi-structured interviews with 14 young people, mostly female (71%), aged 14–18 years (M= 16.3,SD= 1.8), at five TRC facilities in Portugal. Young people and staff also completed a sociodemographic questionnaire and the youth self-report or child behaviour checklist to assess internalising and externalising symptoms. Content analysis revealed mostly positive perceptions and experiences across the domains (Setting, Staffing, Treatment Approach, Safety, Milieu Factor and Profile Characteristics). However, half of the youth reported being vulnerable to peer contagion and females with higher internalising and externalising symptoms reported more negative perceptions and experiences of TRC. These findings highlight that creating an organisational social context that supports participatory approaches to assessing quality may provide invaluable insights into how services can be responsive to young people’s needs. Focusing on establishing high-quality relationships with staff, peers, family, and the community may be key to ensuring the long-term success of TRC.
Increased risk of multimorbidity has been linked to depressive symptoms, and the onset of multimorbidity can further aggravate these symptoms. However, the lagged relationship between these two factors remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the bidirectional longitudinal association between multimorbidity and depressive symptoms among middle-aged and older adults in China over time, specifically focusing on gender and urban-rural differences in this relationship. Data from 8692 participants in the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS), collected between 2011 and 2020, were analyzed on a biannual basis. The ten-item Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D-10) was utilized to assess depressive symptoms, complemented by self-reported information on 12 chronic diseases to evaluate multimorbidity. Cross-lagged panel models, adjusted for various covariates, were employed to investigate the bidirectional relationship between multimorbidity and depressive symptoms. Furthermore, the analysis examined gender and urban-rural differences across four distinct subgroups: urban men, urban women, rural men, and rural women. A significant bidirectional relationship was identified between multimorbidity and depressive symptoms. Higher levels of multimorbidity were associated with more severe depressive symptoms and vice versa. Path analyses revealed that the influence of multimorbidity on depressive symptoms was stronger than the reverse relationship. Furthermore, subgroup analyses highlighted variability in these associations, with significant bidirectional relationships observed only among rural women across different periods. The findings reveal positive bidirectional associations between multimorbidity and depressive symptoms in middle-aged and older Chinese adults. The results underscore the importance of early monitoring of multimorbidity and depression, especially concerning the mental and physical health of women in rural areas.
As prekindergarten and kindergarten (PreK/K) programs continue to expand into public elementary schools, a key actor in this process of integration and alignment is the school principal. While there is a growing body of scholarship that examines how principals integrate and align these programs with the later grades of elementary school, little is known about how principals identify the support prekindergarten and kindergarten teachers need to be successful in educating and preparing their students for school success; such information can provide insight into principals’ understanding of the work PreK/K teachers are doing daily in their classrooms. This case study examines this issue by investigating how a sample of elementary school principals in Texas made sense of the support PreK/K teachers require to be successful in their positions. Such findings reveal principals’ sensemaking of PreK/K teachers and their programs. These findings also illuminate what principals and their teachers might need from district and state administrators to lead these programs more effectively so that all students can begin their academic careers on a trajectory to thrive in elementary school.
Subsidies that reduce childcare costs for low-income families have been linked with benefits including increases in parental employment and use of higher quality care. However, these benefits accrue mainly to families who access subsidies for sustained periods. The recertification process, whereby families must periodically document that they are still eligible for subsidies, has been identified as administratively burdensome and as a barrier to continuous subsidy enrollment. Drawing on a novel survey (n = 501) and interviews (n = 64) with families in New Mexico, this study used logistic regression and thematic analysis to examine family characteristics associated with successful recertification, facilitators and impediments to successful recertification, reasons for subsidy exit, and implications of recertification processes for family stability. Results showed families with full-time employment, fewer adults in the home, and lower incomes had greater odds of recertifying successfully without a gap in benefits. Families’ primary reasons for exiting the subsidy program included changes to their childcare needs (e.g., COVID disruptions or children aging into kindergarten), and changes to their eligibility due to increased income or leaving the workforce. Families reported that recertification was less burdensome when they received clear and consistent communication from eligibility workers or navigation support from their care providers. When subsidy benefits were lost, participants reported adverse consequences for their care arrangements and employment circumstances. They also described adverse outcomes of maintaining their eligibility, such as turning down pay increases.
Based on the assumption that language influences thinking, the present study investigated the effect of gender-fair language in German, a grammatically gendered language among primary school children. Specifically, in a single-study experiment, we compared 218 German third and fourth graders on the effects of the generic masculine (e.g.,der Polizist; English:the policeman) and gender-fair language in terms of the feminine and masculine form (e.g.,die Polizistin/der Polizist; English:the policewoman/the policeman) on the cognitive representation of women in stereotypically masculine occupations and occupational self-efficacy. General self-efficacy was examined as a moderator variable, assumed to influence the effect of gender-fair language on occupational self-efficacy. The results indicate that the gender-fair form led to a higher cognitive representation of women in stereotypically masculine occupations for girls and increased girls’ occupational self-efficacy for stereotypically masculine occupations. In contrast, the use of gender-fair language did not significantly influence boys’ cognitive representation of women and their occupational self-efficacy. General self-efficacy did not affect the effect of gender-fair language on occupational self-efficacy. Thus, even as early as in primary school, gender-fair language could help attracting girls to stereotypically masculine occupations.
The rapid proliferation of digital media has significantly transformed childhood experiences, necessitating an understanding of its impact on preschoolers’ development. This study illuminates the nature of YouTube interactions among preschool-aged children, underlining the importance of this research in the broader context of digital media’s role in early childhood. Addressing a vital gap, the work explores how these interactions influence aspirations and consumer behavior within a Turkish cultural framework. Employing semi-structured interviews, data was meticulously gathered from 25 parent-child pairs, providing a narrative-driven exploration into digital engagement. The findings reveal a dual-faceted impact: children exhibited emotional responses and altered aspirations post-YouTube exposure, with a marked inclination towards consumerism influenced by digital content. This underscores the potency of social learning through digital platforms. However, the research scope was confined to a specific locale, necessitating caution when extending conclusions beyond this demographic. The results prompt a reevaluation of parental mediation practices, suggest potential for educational integration of digital media, and advocate for the necessity of culturally attuned digital content regulation. Implications for future research include diversifying methodologies and participant demographics to further substantiate the findings and expand their applicability.
Over the last 15 years, many European countries have experienced fertility declines. Existing research on this shift in fertility behavior points to economic aspects and increased levels of uncertainty as important drivers. However, in this debate little attention has been paid to how the relevance of individual- and contextual-level dimensions for understanding the new fertility patterns varies by level of urbanization. This is surprising given that urban and rural areas not only differ strongly in fertility timing and levels, but also in economic conditions. Our paper fills this important research gap by analyzing rich register data from Finland using multi-level event history models to study the transition to first birth among younger (under age 30) and older (ages 30 or older) women. We show that urban–rural differences in the transition to parenthood are particularly pronounced among younger women. In addition, the results indicate that economic circumstances and related uncertainties are more relevant for understanding first births probabilities for younger women than older women. Finally, among younger women, the relevance of economic circumstances and related uncertainties seems to be most relevant in the capital region of Helsinki and urban areas compared to semiurban and rural areas. Our findings underline that the urban–rural dimension should receive more attention in research on fertility in times of uncertainty.
While improving teachers’ questioning skills and techniques should be the primary focus in professional development, it is equally crucial for teachers to help children recognize that some questions are more effective for learning than others and that asking with a purpose leads to a deeper understanding. Well-formulated questions and the ability to discern which questions are worth posing are also essential components of developing into an autonomous learner and decision-maker. The collaborative case study presented here, conducted by a university researcher and an early childhood teacher, responded to calls for research into children’s questions across diverse cultural contexts and with a variety of methodologies. Through qualitative data collection and analysis over a five-month period, the study had the advantage of tracking the learning journey of a group of 4- and 5-year-olds in a Greek early childhood setting, from repeating each other’s questions to asking purposeful questions in various contexts and documenting how children’s questioning skills were co-constructed in context. Through examples of critical incidents and samples of children’s efforts, the paper discusses the strategies that supported children in posing more effective questions and illustrates how the surrounding conversational and social environment can facilitate the improvement of question-asking.
Although numerous studies have investigated the psychological outcomes of peer victimization, little is known about differences in the negative effects of traditional victimization and cyber victimization, especially among left-behind and non-left-behind adolescents in rural China. We aimed to examine a model explaining how traditional victimization and cyber victimization influence suicidal ideation mediated by emotional distress in rural China, with left-behind status as a moderator. Data were collected via random, multistage, stratified-cluster sampling in schools in a rural region of Hunan province, China. The sample included 697 adolescents in Grades 7–9 (boys = 53.8%). Structural equation modeling and multigroup comparison analysis were performed to test a pre-formulated conceptual model. In the full sample, both traditional and cyber victimization were associated with students’ emotional distress, which was also associated with suicidal ideation. Among left-behind adolescents, only traditional victimization was associated with emotional distress and suicidal ideation. For non-left-behind adolescents, both traditional victimization and cyber victimization were significantly associated with emotional distress, and cyber victimization’s association with emotional distress was even slightly stronger than traditional victimization’s. Our study expands the current understanding of the differential effects of traditional and cyber victimization among subgroups of children. The findings further suggest that the focus should not be solely on left-behind children; the psychological health of non-left-behind children also warrants attention. Additionally, the study provides considerable implications for practice.
Occupational burnout is a concern for the health of clergy and musicians and the longevity of their careers. However, no known study has assessed occupational burnout among pastoral musicians in the United States. Therefore, the aims of this paper were to (1) describe pastoral musicians as a population, (2) identify the prevalence rate of burnout among pastoral musicians, and (3) investigate the relationship between pastoral musicians’ burnout and religious coping. In 2021, an online questionnaire designed to assess burnout among pastoral musicians was disseminated via email to members of the Hymn Society of North America and via social media to collect data from pastoral music directors in the United States. The survey yieldedN= 1,050 respondents. Of these, 83.8% experienced one or more symptoms of burnout (41.3% with low efficacy; 12.4% with high emotional exhaustion; 21.3% with high cynicism; 8.8% with burnout). Ineffectiveness was positively correlated with negative religious coping. Emotional exhaustion and cynicism were positively correlated with negative religious coping. This study contributes quantitative analysis to pastoral musician research. Findings demonstrate that burnout is prevalent among American pastoral musicians. More research is needed to investigate solutions for burnout among this population.Keywords: church musician, performance-related health problems (PRHPs), clergy, musicians’ health, performing arts health, burnout.
As the caregivers and educators of young children, kindergarten teachers often have to make spontaneous decisions and deal with challenging situations on a daily basis. The well-being of kindergarten teachers is of interest to parents, teacher trainers, and policymakers, as whether kindergarten teachers do well physically, psychologically, and occupationally has important implications for young children—the future pillars of society. Therefore, it is important to examine factors that may contribute to our understanding of the well-being of kindergarten teachers. This cross-sectional study examined whether mindfulness was linked to Chinese kindergarten teachers’ physical, psychological, and occupational well-being and tested self-compassion as a mediator. Online questionnaire data were collected from 336 kindergarten teachers working in Hong Kong, China (mean age = 31.6 years; 86% of them were women). Kindergarten teachers rated their physical well-being (indicated by physical health and voice disorder symptoms), psychological well-being (indicated by life satisfaction and depressive symptoms), and occupational well-being (indicated by job satisfaction and turnover intentions) as well as their mindfulness and self-compassion. Structural equational modeling revealed that mindfulness was associated with all three aspects of well-being and self-compassion mediated such associations. Theoretically, findings highlighted the multidimensional nature of kindergarten teachers’ well-being and the roles of intrapersonal factors—such as mindfulness and self-compassion—in understanding it. Practically, findings pointed to the potential utility of supporting kindergarten teachers’ well-being by targeting their mindfulness and self-compassion.
Parental overprotection is thought to be a risk factor for childhood anxiety disorders. The Parental Overprotection Measure (POM) is a self-assessment scale that has been used in many studies, however, no article has comprehensively explored its psychometric properties. The aim of this study was to evaluate the POM to secure reliable, replicable, and comparable results. Using an item-response theoretical framework, we aimed to address five basic criteria of psychometric quality: one-dimensionality, ordered response categories, invariance, targeting, and reliability. Furthermore, we aimed to identify and exclude any items that did not contribute significantly, to create a concise and practical scale. A total of 1092 parents of children aged 4–12 years were recruited through an online advertisement and completed an anonymous online survey during September and October 2020. Out of the 19 items of the original scale, eight were excluded due to unsatisfactory psychometric properties and/or because of not being judged by experts as harmonious with the concept of parental overprotection. The retained items constituted the POM-11, a brief scale with sound psychometric properties that has the potential for use in both research and clinical settings.
Previous research shows that female workers are less sensitive to wages in their decision to switch jobs than male workers, and that this could explain a substantial part of the gender wage gap. This paper studies to what extent gender differences in preferences and personality traits explain the gender gap in the wage-elasticity of job-to-job transitions in the labor market. Using a novel decomposition approach in the context of mediated moderation and using German Socio-Economic Panel Survey (G-SOEP) data for the period 2005–2019, we find that gender differences in risk preferences, patience, trust, reciprocity, altruism, conscientiousness, ambition and self-esteem explain about 25% of the gender gap in wage-elasticities of job separations. A detailed decomposition suggests that risk preferences, trust and ambition contribute most to this gender gap in wage-elasticity.
I study the association between task content of jobs and mothers’ employment transitions after the first birth in Germany. I construct measures of task content of jobs using data from the Employment Survey conducted by the German Federal Institute for Vocational Education and Training (BiBB). These indicators illustrate the career cost of children and how it is impacted by the technology- and globalization-driven labour market change. The measures are then linked to high-quality individual register data from the German Pension Fund (FDZ-RV) covering the years 2012–2020. Utilizing competing risk models, I show that women engaged in occupations with analytic and interactive task content, which are in high demand and incompatible with maternity-related employment breaks, are the most likely to transition to employment after their first birth. Conversely, women with occupations intense in routine tasks, which are more susceptible to automation or trade competition, are more likely to experience unemployment.
PurposeItem response theory (IRT) models are an increasingly popular method choice for evaluating clinical outcome assessments (COAs) for use in clinical trials. Given common constraints in clinical trial design, such as limits on sample size and assessment lengths, the current study aimed to examine the appropriateness of commonly used polytomous IRT models, specifically the graded response model (GRM) and partial credit model (PCM), in the context of how they are frequently used for psychometric evaluation of COAs in clinical trials.MethodsData were simulated under varying sample sizes, measure lengths, response category numbers, and slope strengths, as well as under conditions that violated some model assumptions, namely, unidimensionality and equality of item slopes. Model fit, detection of item local dependence, and detection of item misfit were all examined to identify conditions where one model may be preferable or results may contain a degree of bias.ResultsFor unidimensional item sets and equal item slopes, the PCM and GRM performed similarly, and GRM performance remained consistent as slope variability increased. For not-unidimensional item sets, the PCM was somewhat more sensitive to this unidimensionality violation. Looking across conditions, the PCM did not demonstrate a clear advantage over the GRM for small sample sizes or shorter measure lengths.ConclusionOverall, the GRM and the PCM each demonstrated advantages and disadvantages depending on underlying data conditions and the model outcome investigated. We recommend careful consideration of the known, or expected, data characteristics when choosing a model and interpreting its results.
Background and ObjectivesFamilies of children with special health care needs (CSHCN) have reported to benefit from social, emotional, and informational support from other families (peer support) with similarly affected children. Pediatric subspecialists often serve as the primary medical providers for CSHCN, as well as educators for these children’s families. The extent to which subspecialists refer families to sources of peer support is unknown.MethodsA statewide online survey of California pediatric subspecialists investigated opinions about the potential value and challenges of peer support. Data was obtained on the frequency with which families in their practices were referred to peer support, practice characteristics, and personal demographics. Weighted data, descriptive statistics, and regression models were used to characterize and predict factors affecting referral services.ResultsThere were 388 respondents, a response rate of 14.5%. Subspecialists were generally unfamiliar with peer support resources in their communities, but many more knew of peer support programs in their institutions. Most (> 85%) held positive views about peer support, though only 40% of practices often referred families for such support. Individual opinions did not predict practice referral processes for peer support which were more influenced by knowledge of resources, and availability of time, staffing, and institutional peer support resources.ConclusionOffering referral to peer support services is compatible with pediatric subspecialty care. Educating physicians about available resources, assigning responsibility, providing staff time for referring families, and incorporating parent mentors into subspecialty practices can increase access. Future studies of families’ referral experiences are needed.
Contraceptive use is the most effective means of preventing unintended pregnancies among sexually active individuals. Foreign-born women are less likely to use contraception when compared to US-born women. However, there are limited studies focused on understanding factors that influence contraceptive use among foreign-born women in the US. This study aimed to explore the factors associated with contraceptive use in the early reproductive lives of foreign-born women in the US. This study utilized the 2017-2019 National Survey on Family Growth to conduct a cross-sectional secondary data analysis. Analyses were restricted to observations from 708 women who identified as foreign-born, were aged 15-49 years, and provided information about their first pregnancies. Chi-square tests and multivariable logistic regression were used to assess the factors influencing contraceptive use. 70.9% of the participants had used a form of contraception in the period leading to their first pregnancy. Multivariable regression analysis identified significant predictors of contraceptive use: educational level, age, religion, income levels, health insurance, and race/ethnicity. Those with a religious affiliation and were 25 years and above had greater odds of contraceptive use while non-Hispanic blacks and non-Hispanic other/multiple race participants had lower odds of contraceptive use. Based on the predictors identified, public health interventions should be tailored to address specific socio-demographic factors that influence contraceptive decisionmaking among foreign-born women in the US. Additionally, understanding the disparities in contraceptive use across racial/ethnic backgrounds underscores the need for culturally sensitive approaches that acknowledge and respect diverse beliefs surrounding contraception.
BackgroundThe transferability of health policies in the European Union (EU) faces challenges due to economic, political, and healthcare system factors, including cross-country differences in health preferences. In order to aid policymaking, previous research has grouped EU countries based on geographical proximity or literature-based criteria, but not on health preference data. The EQ-5D-5L instrument, which measures health-related quality of life and reflects unique national health preferences shaped by cultural and social factors, is used to evaluate policies, technologies and interventions, but has not been used to group countries. Thus, this study aims to identify clusters of EU-27 countries with similar preference patterns using published EQ-5D-5L value sets.MethodsHierarchical agglomerative clustering was employed on 13 EU-27 countries’ EQ-5D-5L value sets, first analyzing regression coefficients for each dimension-level and then creating a simulated coefficient distribution considering uncertainty.FindingsFive clusters of EU-27 countries emerged: (1) Belgium, Netherlands, Sweden, Germany); (2) Hungary, Italy, Portugal; (3) Poland, Romania; (4) France, Spain; (5) Denmark, Ireland. All clusters except cluster 5 gave higher importance to “Pain and Discomfort”; all clusters except cluster 1 gave less importance to “Usual Activities”. “Anxiety and Depression” and “Pain and Discomfort” had the largest heterogeneity in valuation across severity level.InterpretationIdentified clusters of countries with distinct health preferences provide insights for health policy transferability in the EU. Recognizing countries with similar health preferences can aid EU policymaking and transferability efforts, particularly in early-stage policymaking, while also fostering closer collaboration on health policy decisions and best practice sharing. Further development of national value sets within the EU is necessary for a more accurate representation.
Interpersonal and intergroup relationships seem to have steadily deteriorated in recent years, with an increase in the lack of civility and decency along with a greater willingness to attack and cancel anyone who does not agree with one’s cherished perspective on numerous matters. New popular phrases such as cancel culture, public shaming, air rage, and gaslighting have entered the common vernacular. Ignatian spirituality offers several helpful strategies for dealing with these contemporary divisive conflicts in a productive manner. These include (1) seeing God (or the sacred) in all things, (2) striving towards kinship with others through the pathway of civility, hospitality, and solidarity, and (3) managing conflict with accommodation, humility, and the expectation of goodness in mind. This article introduces and provides examples of these three Ignatian principles that can be employed in all challenging relationships, including both personal and professional as well as psychotherapeutic ones. They can be utilized in a secular or spiritually minded manner as well. Having more tools to improve relationships is especially needed now.
Classmates’ academic and executive function (EF) skills are important predictors of individual EF and achievement. The present study investigated the effects of peer EF, using a battery of measures, on individual EF and academic achievement in preschool. Peer effects were assessed for 321 preschool-aged children from 48 classrooms. Using hierarchical linear modeling, peer EF predicted student gains in executive function, vocabulary, and math, but not literacy. Results suggested that classrooms with higher overall EF had students who achieved more skills over the course of the school year in comparison to children in classrooms with lower levels of EF. The effect of fall peer EF on spring student EF was greater for low-income dual language learners (DLLs) than monolinguals. Findings suggest that EF, math, and vocabulary knowledge are socially mediated by peers and can have differential effects on DLLs.
ObjectivesLittle is known about the efficacy of remotely delivered outcome measures (psychological/health-related assessments) in a signed language for Deaf people. The objective is to explore the equivalence of two modes of remote delivery of health-related quality of life outcome measures in British Sign Language (BSL): asynchronous online assessment versus synchronous live face-to-face online assessment in sign language.MethodsThirty-one participants were recruited through Deaf networks and sign language media. Measures used were validated BSL versions of the EQ-5D-5L, EQ-VAS and CORE-10. A randomised, crossover trial was conducted between March and May 2023 with seventeen first receiving asynchronous assessment and sixteen first receiving synchronous live online assessment. This study explored whether the outcomes of the two assessments are equivalent regardless of modality of delivery. Demographic data were collected, and eight participants took part in semi-structured qualitative interviews exploring modality preferences and the impact of each modality.ResultsThe mean difference between pre-recorded and live modes was 0.034 for EQ-5D-5L BSL (90% CI 0.015–0.051), 4.33 mean difference for EQ-VAS BSL (90% CI 0.697–8.083), and mean difference of 0.17 for CORE-10 BSL (90% CI − 1.4065 to 1.1775). The confidence intervals for each of the EQ-5D-5L BSL, EQ-VAS BSL, and CORE-10 BSL lie within the prespecified equivalence margins which suggested that the two modes are equivalent.ConclusionThe results demonstrate that EQ-5D-5L BSL, EQ-VAS BSL, and CORE-10 BSL may be considered as equivalent across modes of remote delivery. This further strengthens the validation of existing standardised assessments in BSL.A BSL version of the abstract is available in Supplementary Video 1.
The lack of health insurance coverage is one of the most serious challenges confronting refugees and an important public policy issue. This study examines how refugees’ human and social capital is linked to their health insurance coverage. This study uses the 2020 Annual Survey of Refugees public use data file to test the relationship between refugees’ human and social capital and their health insurance coverage. 770 refugees who entered the U.S. between 2015 and 2019 are included in the sample. Health insurance coverage is measured in three different levels: no coverage at all, coverage with a gap, and coverage all year long. This study employs an ordered probit regression. The findings show that refugees’ human capital, regardless of whether it is from refugees’ home country or the U.S., is not associated with health insurance coverage. However, refugees’ social capital, in terms of their involvement in religious organizations and their informal bridging network with people from a different culture, is positively associated with coverage. The analysis also reveals a gap in coverage once the initial government assistance ends, and refugees’ paid employment and household income are negatively associated with health insurance coverage. The findings suggest that refugees’ social capital in the new country plays an important role in obtaining the necessary information for healthcare access while the positive impacts of human capital on healthcare access may not apply to the refugee population. Therefore, resettlement programs should place an emphasis on helping refugees build and enhance social connections with people of diverse cultural backgrounds.
The representation of motherhood using digital platforms, which we call sharenting, can shape the socially constructed motherhood identity, i.e., supermoms in modern societies. Despite building a positive identity as mothers, supermoms may unintentionally violate their children’s privacy, instrumentalise, and even monetise the children. We examine sharenting and supermom identities as manifestations of neoliberal repositioning women as mothers and employees with little consideration of their unarticulated struggles. Drawing on a netnographic study of social media practices, we analysed fifteen working supermom accounts with over two hundred thousand followers, where child-related content was shared and posted between 2019 and 2023. We find that sharenting is often employed to construct the identity of supermoms, yet it frequently leads to the exploitation of children for profit-driven purposes, thereby increasing their vulnerability. We contribute to the literature by offering empirical evidence that the supermom identity is a by-product of the neoliberal system, which normalises time-intensive demands on women in the workplace and caregiving roles. Furthermore, we highlight the adverse consequences of sharenting and provide critical insights into the privacy and security risks associated with child-related digital content.
U.S. immigrant parents encounter various challenges during the migration and resettlement process, such as acculturative stress and dissonance in parenting practices between the cultures in the U.S. and those in their country of origin. Although studies have established a link between increased perceived stress and reduced parenting self-efficacy in U.S.-born parents, which could be alleviated by levels of parental empowerment, little is known about this pathway in the context of migration. Guided by the Family Adjustment and Adaptation Response Model and with a focus on low-income immigrant parents of young children, we examined (1) the association between perceived stress and parenting self-efficacy, and (2) whether parental empowerment constitutes a buffer between perceived stress and parenting self-efficacy. Participants included foreign-born, low-income parents (n= 680) with preschool-aged children enrolled in Head Start of Greater Boston. Linear regression models were conducted to examine the relationship between perceived stress and parenting self-efficacy. An interaction term between perceived stress and empowerment was included to test the moderating effect of each dimension of parental empowerment (i.e., resource empowerment, critical awareness, and relational empowerment). Results showed higher perceived stress was associated with lower parenting self-efficacy and this relationship was moderated by relational empowerment. Findings suggest that relational empowerment can be an important resource for immigrant parents with high stress and a protective factor to improve self-efficacy in their parenting. These results pose important implications regarding how healthcare professionals and clinicians may support parents, for example, through the development of culturally sensitive parenting interventions and the creation of safe environments for parent-to-parent relationships.
There is a long history of political violence in the United States. Scholars have documented numerous dispositions that predict support for violence as a political tactic, finding that a general tendency toward aggression is consistently among the strongest predictors. Yet, we know much less about how political attitudes might activate aggressive personalities and direct them toward specific targets. In this paper, we examine how policy attitudes interact with dispositional aggression to motivate support for political violence. Across two studies, using novel measures and within-subjects designs, we show that intense policy opposition strongly predicts support for aggressive political tactics against politicians responsible for the legislation – primarily among those who are dispositionally prone to aggression. Surprisingly, the strength of partisan identity plays little role in explaining support for political aggression. Our findings suggest that policy attitudes are a crucial factor for understanding when aggressive individuals might turn to political violence.
More than merely policy, neoliberalism shapes how teachers relate to their students and classrooms. This article seeks to make visible how neoliberalism functions to form and deform teacher’s subjectivities (and in turn their pedagogical practices) through an analysis of the experiences of two teachers within an accountability-constrained elementary school. Using data generated within an ethnographically-informed case study, we draw on discourse analytic and post-qualitative methodologies, in conversation with critical theorizing of neoliberalism, to examine how teachers’ subjectivities were fractured as they worked to simultaneously meet the demands of neoliberal accountability and the humanizing aims of their pedagogical philosophies. We describe three archetypes—the neoliberal pragmatist, the student advocate, and the humanizing pedagogue—constructed to represent the varied approaches taken by teachers in their attempts to reconcile these conflicting aims. Then, through two vignettes of classroom practice, we illustrate how neoliberal logics and policies compelled these teachers to balance competing subjectivities, resulting in those teachers enacting extensive test preparation that contradicted their pedagogical philosophies. Through this analysis, we argue that fragmentation of teachers’ subjectivities within neoliberalism functions to effectively keep teachers off balance in their attempts to both respond to and resist neoliberal educational reforms, resulting in a maintenance of the neoliberal order.
This article examines how teachers use sponsorship to foster Black student academic success. Sponsorship is understood to be tailored, active support from influential teachers that promote academic success. The article examines a central question: “how do teachers use sponsorship to foster Black student success?” The author uses data from an ethnographic case study of high schools in a metropolitan area in the Midwest United States and draws on Critical Race Theory to inform the study. The author reconceptualizes sponsorship as a process termed sifting for success. Findings show sifting for success involves three components: (a) centering a systematic exclusion of Black people; (b) removing barriers to academic success; and (c) positioning some students as academic afterthoughts. The author details tensions that emerge as teachers use sponsorship to benefit Black students. The article concludes with a discussion of the findings and offers implications for future inquiries.
ObjectiveGlobally, obstetric hemorrhage and trauma are the leading causes of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality during pregnancy. Delivering high-quality medical care to these patients is therefore imperative.This study aims to examine the relationship between month of referral and the severity of emergency admissions among pregnant women referred for obstetric hemorrhage and trauma.Materials and MethodsA retrospective cross-sectional analysis was conducted on hospital records of 1,684 pregnant women admitted to the case emergency center at Imam Reza Hospital in Mashhad, Iran for hemorrhage or trauma between January and December 2016. Secondary data extracted from the hospital information system (HIS) were used to calculate frequencies for patient demographics (age, insurance type), clinical characteristics (admission type, emergency severity, injury cause, referral reason) and external factors (month of referral). Logistic regression was used to assess the relationship between the month of referral and emergency severity (urgent/non-urgent) for hemorrhage and trauma.ResultsHemorrhage during pregnancy (n= 1,636, 97.1%) was the most prevalent reason for referral throughout the year. The month of referral was significantly associated with emergency severity (P< 0.001). Compared to March, the odds of urgent referrals were notably higher in August (OR 3.822), October (OR 5.084), and November (OR 4.720).ConclusionA peak in emergency referrals were observed during the summer and fall months, with October having the highest number of referrals for obstetric hemorrhage and trauma.
In this study, we measured attitudes, beliefs, and intentions about implementing outdoor learning experiences among 56 early childhood professionals before and after attending Growing Up WILD™ (GUW) training. Online pre- and post-surveys were distributed to participants measuring a range of attitudes (i.e., comfort and confidence), beliefs, and intentions (i.e., planning). Overall, after attending GUW training, participants reported feeling more confident facilitating conversations with children about nature and science and more comfortable about planning teacher directed activities, allowing children to take risks, and offering free play. They also expressed fewer concerns about potential barriers to going outside such as family concerns, materials, and curriculum. It also demonstrated participants had greater intentions to engage children in outdoor learning experiences (e.g., outdoor field trips and nature walks). Our findings highlight the impact that GUW training, a brief intervention, can have on early childhood professionals’ attitudes, beliefs, and intentions toward implementing outdoor education. We hope that these attitudinal shifts will encourage early childhood professionals to take young children outside so they can enjoy the benefits of outdoor education.
Compared to global lobbying hubs like the USA and the European Union and to its neighboring countries, Switzerland hardly regulates legislative lobbying, i.e., lobbying that targets the legislative branch. Only three types of legal provisions apply to lobbying in the Swiss legislature: First, legislators must disclose their ties to interest groups. Second, access to the parliamentary building is limited and granted at the discretion of each legislator, who may give an entry pass to two individuals of his or her choice. Third, legislative lobbying is illegal if it violates the criminal law provisions on bribery. Proposals to enact more comprehensive regulation have failed, often after several years of legislative debate. Pursuant to the classification proposed by Chari et al. (Regulating Lobbying: A Global Comparison, 2nd ed., Manchester University Press, Manchester, 2019), the Swiss legal framework governing legislative lobbying qualifies as a ‘low-robustness’ regime at best. Yet, Switzerland ranks high in Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (6/180 in 2023). Is more extensive regulation superfluous or overdue in Switzerland? While the Swiss legal and political order is exceptional in some respects, these characteristics do not justify ‘Swiss exceptionalism’ with regard to the regulation of legislative lobbying, as some of these specificities pose distinctive threats that the law needs to tackle.
Early writing includes both transcription skills (e.g., handwriting and spelling) and composing skills (e.g., the generation, manipulation, and translation of ideas into writing), yet early composing is not as well understood in academic research or by classroom educators. This study seeks to understand 1) how children retained or modified core idea units from pre-writing verbalizations to post-writing verbalizations and 2) how these transformations are related to other composing components, such as connection of ideas. Participants in this study included 133 children at the end of their prekindergarten year. Children completed two composing tasks related to planning a birthday party: an Invitation task and a List task, in which they were asked what they planned to write before writing and then what they had written after writing. Results indicate that most children’s pre- and post-verbalizations were connected in meaning. While children overwhelmingly modified their core ideas on both tasks, more children retained ideas on the List task than the Invitation task. Children most often concurrently added and deleted ideas on both tasks, but did so less often when pre- and post-verbalizations were connected in meaning. Implications for supporting the complete writing process, from planning to review and revision, in classroom practices as well as further directions for research are discussed.
Cultural consonance, defined as the extent to which one is able to approximate a given cultural model in one’s own life, is a highly adaptive theory and method which anthropologists have used for decades to demonstrate direct connections between individuals’ variation in relation to meaning systems and their health outcomes. However, it has been limited by use of a “cultural consonance score” which treats cultural consonance unidimensionally. Because people enact cultural models in multiple ways, cultural consonance may be better operationalized multidimensionally. Applying correspondence analysis to young South Korean men’s responses to a cultural consonance scale measuring their approximation of the local ideal male body, cultural consonance is rather demonstrated to be a multiplicity. In the case of South Korean men’s body ideals, two dimensions—men’s overall attractiveness and whether they pursue a “flower boy” or a “beastly man” embodiment—are identified. These two dimensions are also significantly associated with university prestige and sexual identity, and predict disordered eating beyond body dissatisfaction. These data suggest that well-being in relation to cultural consonance is a product of its assemblage: both of degree of approximation of a cultural model and the manner by which individuals enact it.
Navigating the vast sea of information in the digital age poses significant challenges, especially when it comes to discerning fake news from authentic information. This intricate task becomes even more challenging when the fake news is artfully presented as truth. Fake news often disguises itself as credible content and, by rapidly proliferating on digital platforms, contributes to increasing information disorder. This paper aims to investigate how the fake news phenomenon and its related issues have been addressed in the scientific literature. To achieve this objective, we conducted a bibliometric analysis of 3098 scientific publications extracted from the Web of Science from 2005 to 2022. This approach allowed us to identify the conceptual structure of fake news, including the different themes, and understand how they are interconnected in the field of fake news study. Additionally, we examined the intellectual structure based on the co-citations of key journals addressing this topic. The results of this research revealed an increase in the volume of fake news publications, coinciding with a rise in citations among the authors of the selected articles. Furthermore, we found that the conceptual structure of fake news is characterised by an interdisciplinary nature, which revolves mainly around sociopolitical dynamics and public health, with the latter particularly influenced by the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Finally, the intellectual structure uncovered by the journals’ co-citation network highlights the presence of two main subfields: communication and political debate and the behavioural domain.
This paper examines the impact of children’s urban-to-urban migration on their parents’ health. Our findings indicate that children’s urban-to-urban migration significantly reduces the self-assessed health ratings of left-behind parents, increases the incidence of chronic diseases, and elevates levels of depression among them. However, there is no evidence of impacts on the left-behind parents’ activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily living, or memory functions. The overall decline in the parental health is mainly caused by the absence of daily care and emotional comfort, while the achievements of children may mitigate this negative shock to some extent. In addition, economic support provided by children’s urban-to-urban migration does not significantly impact parental health, which is related to the higher asset endowment possessed by urban parents. Furthermore, the negative impact of daughters’ urban-to-urban migration on parents is primarily reflected in physical health, while that of sons is mainly reflected in mental health. Additionally, the negative impact of urban-to-urban migration on the health of left-behind parents is more pronounced in the sub-samples of children who are financially dependent on their parents and left-behind parents with lower assets.
We propose a synthesis of the independent scientific frameworks of economic complexity and urban scaling into a consistent mechanism—city complexity—to measure multi-dimensional fitness of cities. Essentially, we use deviations from scaling law for a given set of urban outcomes as the basis to construct a bipartite city-outcome matrix. This matrix forms the input into the economic complexity methodology, which iterates over a pair of coupled non-linear maps, computing fitness of cities and complexity of outcomes. We test our algorithm with data from American cities and find that the emergent city fitness measure is consistent with expected behavior across the set of outcomes studied. We also find temporal evolution of city fitness and outcome complexity to be in agreement with theoretical expectation. Finally, we perturb the metrics to conditions of widespread socioeconomic stress and find that outcomes are indicative of the robustness of thecity complexityalgorithm. Overall, these findings suggest that thecity complexitymechanism proposed here produces systematic, self-consistent metrics and can be applied across any set of diverse outcomes, irrespective of the specifics of national urban contexts.
PurposeOur objectives were to identify characteristics of response shift studies using patient-reported outcomes (PROMs) that explain variability in (1) the detection and (2) the magnitude of response shift effects.MethodsWe conducted a systematic review of quantitative studies published before June 2023. First, two-level multivariable logistic regression models (effect- and sample-levels) were used to explain variability in the probability of finding a response shift effect. Second, variability in effect sizes (standardized mean differences) was investigated with 3-level meta-regression models (participant-, effect- and sample-levels). Explanatory variables identified via the purposeful selection methodology included response shift method and type, and population-, study design-, PROM- and study-quality characteristics.ResultsFirst, logistic regression analysis of 5597 effects from 206 samples in 171 studies identified variables explaining 41.5% of theeffect-levelvariance, while no variables explainedsample-levelvariance. The average probability of response shift detection is 0.20 (95% CI: 0.17-0.28). Variation in detection was predominantly explained by response shift methods and type (recalibration vs. reprioritization/reconceptualization). Second, effect sizes were analyzed for 769 effects from 114 samples and 96 studies based on the then-test and structural equation modeling methods. Meta-regression analysis identified variables explaining 11.6% of the effect-level variance and 26.4% of the sample-level variance, with an average effect size of 0.30 (95% CI: 0.26-0.34).ConclusionResponse shift detection is influenced by study design and methods. Insights into the variables explaining response shift effects can be used to interpret results of other comparable studies using PROMs and inform the design of future response shift studies.
Throughout the years, immigration has been a significant movement in the USA and leads to the examination of acculturative stress. By employing the acculturation stress and vulnerability models, the present study aimed to examine the association among acculturation stress, self-esteem, depression, family cohesion, and familism in first-generation immigrant children. Longitudinal data from the Children of Immigrants Longitudinal Study (CILS) were used. The analytical sample (n= 5262) was predominantly female (51.1%) and between the ages of 12 and 18 (M= 14.23) years old. SPSS 27 and AMOS 27 were utilized to conduct a path analysis to examine the relationships among acculturation stress, self-esteem, depression, family cohesion, and familism. Our results showed good fit (χ2/df ratio = 11.49; CFI = 0.91; RMSEA = 0.05, CI [.04, .05]) for the full path model. Acculturation stress had a significant, negative association with depression (β= − 0.12,p< .001); a significant, negative association with self-esteem (β= − 0.12,p< .001); and a significant, positive association with family cohesion (β= 0.60,p< .01) and the familism index (β= 0.05,p< .05). Acculturation stress was found to be predictive of self-esteem, depression, and family cohesion for first-generation immigrant children between the ages of 12 and 18 years old. This study provides general implications for how mental health providers can understand the struggles and provide culturally competent therapeutic services for children and their families.